About CorelCDX 
============== 
 
To work with your CD-ROM drives, you require a CD-ROM  
extensions program such as CorelCDX. CD-ROM extensions  
programs interpret, for DOS, data read from High Sierra  
and ISO-9660 formatted CD-ROM discs. 
 
Unlike other CD-ROM extensions programs, CorelCDX also  
caches CD-ROM data. Applications can access cached data  
faster than re-reading the CD-ROM disc. 
 
Table of Contents 
----------------- 
1.   Loading and Unloading CorelCDX 
2.   CorelCDX Caching 
3.   Configuring CorelCDX 
 
1.   Loading and Unloading CorelCDX 
----------------------------------- 
CorelCDX is loaded from the AUTOEXEC.BAT file during  
the system startup. The configuration of CorelCDX is  
determined by its command line switches, which are  
described in the topic, "Configuring CorelCDX". 
 
If you need to free the memory or drive letters used  
by CorelCDX, you can unload CorelCDX. The next time  
you restart your system, CorelCDX is loaded again. 
 
NOTE: CorelCDX may not unload if other TSR programs were  
installed after CorelCDX was loaded. If problems occur,  
unload the other TSR programs and then try to unload  
CorelCDX again. 
 
To unload CorelCDX, enter the following at the command  
prompt: 
     CORELCDX /UNLOAD. 
 
2.   CorelCDX Caching 
--------------------- 
CorelCDX includes several types of caches to provide  
faster access to frequently used CD-ROM data. Path  
table, directory, and data caches provide conventional  
or expanded memory caching. As an extension to  
CorelCDX, CDXCACHE provides an extended memory data  
cache. 
 
The path table cache stores information about the  
name and location of each directory on the CD-ROM  
disc. Each path table cache buffer accommodates  
approximately 100 sub-directories. 
 
The directory cache stores information such as the  
name and location of the files in each directory on  
the CD-ROM disc. Each directory cache buffer  
accommodates approximately 40 to 50 files. 
 
The data cache stores the contents of recently  
accessed files from the CD-ROM disc and any data  
that's expected to be required next. CorelCDX  
uses a read-ahead plus least recently used (LRU)  
algorithm for its data cache: frequently used data  
remains in the cache and infrequently used data  
is discarded from the cache. Data is read into  
the cache in sector blocks. 
 
CDXCACHE, if enabled, is loaded at the same time  
as CorelCDX. This cache stores information recently  
read from CD-ROM drives in extended memory.  
CDXCACHE, like the data cache, uses an LRU algorithm  
to determine the contents of the cache. 
 
CDXCACHE can cache the first 16 CD-ROM drives  
connected to your system. The cache page size  
affects the maximum cacheable sector address.  
CDXCACHE works best with database type applications,  
which repeatedly read information from the same  
areas of a CD-ROM disc. 
 
CDXCACHE versus SMARTDrive: 
Both CDXCACHE and Microsoft's SMARTDrive program  
use extended memory caching. If you're using  
SMARTDrive version 5.0, provided with MS-DOS 6.2,  
you can use SMARTDrive rather than CDXCACHE.  
However, CDXCACHE has smaller overhead and  
operates faster than SMARTDrive.  
 
SMARTDRV.EXE 5.0 is designed to work exclusively  
with Microsoft's MSCDEX CD-ROM driver. However,  
Corel's PATCH_SD.COM modifies SMARTDRV.EXE to  
recognize CorelCDX as a valid CD-ROM driver. 
 
PATCH_SD creates a copy of the existing  
SMARTDRV.EXE program and stores the copy  
as SMARTDRV.MSC. PATCH_SD works only if  
the size of SMARTDRV.EXE is equal to 45145 bytes. 
 
To modify SMARTDrive to recognize CorelCDX: 
1.   Enter the following at the command prompt: PATCH_SD. 
2.   Check your AUTOEXEC.BAT file to ensure that CorelCDX  
     is loaded before SMARTDrive. If SMARTDrive is loaded  
     first, it won't find, and therefore cache, CD-ROM drives. 
     Since SMARTDrive is loaded after CorelCDX, you can't  
     use the CorelCDX /UNLOAD command. 
3.   Disable the CDXCACHE by setting the CorelCDX command  
     line option /XMSSIZE to 0. If you don't disable this  
     cache, both CDXCACHE and SMARTDrive will cache data,  
     using twice the necessary amount of extended memory. 
4.   Reboot your system to reinstall SMARTDRV.EXE. 
 
3.   Configuring CorelCDX 
------------------------- 
CorelCDX is configured using command line switches. Some  
of these switches affect the caching features. For more  
information, see the topic, "CorelCDX Caching". 
 
The CorelCDX command syntax includes the path to the  
location of CorelCDX and several switches. For example,  
the following command indicates that CorelCDX is located  
in the CORELDRV directory:  
 
C:\CORELDRV\CORELCDX [options] 
 
/CACHE:pt;dir;data 
Defines the number of cache buffers allocated, in blocks,  
to the path table, directory, and data caches, respectively. 
 
Typically, the /M option is used rather than /CACHE. However,  
the /CACHE option allows more precise control over the use  
of allocated cache buffers. If both the /CACHE and /M options  
are used, the /CACHE values override the /M value.  
 
You can set path table and directory caches from 2 to 64  
blocks. Each block requires 2K. The data cache can be set  
from 2 to 64 blocks. The size of each block is determined  
by the /DATABLK option. 
 
Minimum, maximum, and alignment requirements may require  
that the actual number of buffers differ slightly from  
those you specify. 
 
/DATABLK:sectors 
Defines the number of 2K sectors assigned to each data  
cache block. You can set this value to 1, 2, 4, or 8 sectors.  
If you don't specify a size, the data cache block size is  
set to 2 sectors by default. 
 
This option is useful for applications that read data from  
compact discs in contiguous segments.  
 
Unless you're using CDXCACHE, setting the /DATABLK value  
to 1 disables read-ahead caching. However, an additional  
4K of conventional memory is required. 
 
The internal read-ahead caching logic of some CD-ROM  
drives may be adversely affected by changing the  
default data cache block size. 
 
/D:name... 
Displays the required name of the CD-ROM device driver.  
If you enter more than one CD-ROM device driver name,  
separate each name with a comma and remove any blanks  
between names. 
 
If you're using Corel's DOS CD-ROM device drivers,  
names are numbered starting from MSCD001. If you're  
using Corel's NetWare CD-ROM device drivers, names  
are numbered starting from MSCD099. 
 
If driver names aren't included in the command line,  
CorelCDX will try to locate and initialize the CD-ROM  
device drivers named, by default, MSCD001 or MSCD099. 
 
/E:value 
Indicates whether code, data, or cache buffers are  
to be stored in expanded memory. This option doesn't  
affect cache buffers used by CDXCACHE. 
 
The option /E:1 loads code and data into expanded  
memory. Only a small footprint remains resident in  
conventional memory. This option may be incompatible  
with some CD-ROM applications; for example, those  
that perform absolute disk reads into expanded  
memory buffers. 
 
The options /E:2 and /E load only cache buffers  
into expanded memory.  
 
The option /E:3 loads code, data, and cache buffers  
into expanded memory. In rare cases, this value may  
cause problems when you try to read data from a CD-ROM  
drive. Some applications, when loaded in expanded  
memory, may create memory conflicts. If you experience  
problems, change the option to either /E or /E:2. 
 
If cache buffers are loaded in expanded memory, a small  
amount of conventional memory may be allocated to store  
required tables, and so on. To make the most efficient  
use of allocated memory, the driver may slightly increase  
the number of specified cache buffers. 
 
/FILES:num 
Sets the maximum number of CD-ROM files that can be  
open at the same time. Each file requires approximately  
16 bytes. 
 
If you don't specify this option, the maximum number  
of open files is set to the same value as the FILES  
command in your CONFIG.SYS file. 
 
/L:letter 
Indicates the drive letter, from A to Z, at which  
CorelCDX starts assigning letters to CD-ROM drives.  
If the letter you specify isn't available, the next  
available drive letter is used. This option is useful  
for software that requires specific drive letters for  
CD-ROM drives. 
 
/M:buffers 
Indicates the approximate number of cache buffers  
allocated, in blocks, for all CD-ROM drives.  
 
Typically, the /M option is used rather than /CACHE.  
However, the /CACHE option allows more precise control  
over the use of allocated cache buffers. If both the  
/CACHE and /M options are used, the /CACHE values  
override the /M value.  
 
/NOFILE 
Prevents CorelCDX from looking for a CRLSCSI.INI file  
for configuration options. This file isn't required  
when you configure CorelCDX using command line switches. 
 
/SHARE 
/S 
Permits CD-ROM drive sharing with Windows for Workgroups. 
 
/VERBOSE 
/VB 
Displays information onscreen about CorelCDX as it's  
loading during the system boot. 
 
/XMSBLOCK:size 
Sets the maximum size of read request in sectors that  
will be cached by CDXCACHE. The cache performance may  
benefit from larger values. However, the cache may fill  
up more quickly. A size of 4 is recommended. 
 
/XMSPAGE:sectors 
Indicates the number of sectors per cache page, which  
determines the read-ahead operations. This option affects  
only CDXCACHE. 
 
The value of 4 is recommended for smaller cache sizes;  
it's more important to cache separate disk reads than  
to perform read-aheads. Use the value 8 for larger cache  
sizes; more data is stored in one operation.  
 
/XMSSIZE:size 
Indicates the size, in kilobytes, of the CDXCACHE cache.  
Set the size to 0 to disable this cache. 
 
A size of -1 creates a default cache size equal to  
one-quarter of the free extended memory. You can  
also set the size to a value from 64 to 16384. 

