



















                       4DOS * 4NT * Take Command/32



                    Introduction and Installation Guide


                               Developed By
                          Rex Conn and Tom Rawson

                             Documentation By
                 Hardin Brothers, Tom Rawson, and Rex Conn

                               Published By
                             JP Software Inc.
                               P.O. Box 1470
                         East Arlington, MA 02474
                                  U.S.A.
                              (781) 646-3975
                            fax (781) 646-0904







                              ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

          We couldn't produce a product like Take Command without the
          dedication and quality work of many people.  Our thanks to:

               JP Software Staff:  Mike Bessy, Steve Nazarian, Elena
               Stone.

               On-line Support:  Blueberry Hill Communications (Palm
               Desert, CA).

               Installation Scripting:  Mark Zembrzuski, Spudsian
               Software & Service.

               Beta Testers:  We can't list all of our beta testers
               here!  A special thanks to all of you who helped make
               4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command elegant, reliable, and
               friendly.

          The following tools are used in creating and maintaining
          4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command:

               Compilers:       Microsoft Visual C++ / Macro Assembler
               Installer:       Wise Installer (Wise Solutions)
               Editors:         Visual SlickEdit (MicroEdge), Boxer
                                (Boxer Software)
               Debuggers:       Soft-ICE and Bounds Checker (Nu-Mega)
               Version Control: PVCS (PVCS), TLIB (Burton Systems)
               Documentation:   Microsoft Word 97

          Copyright (c) 2001, JP Software Inc., All Rights Reserved.

          4DOS(r) , 4OS2, and 4NT are JP Software Inc.'s trademarks for
          its family of character-mode command processors.  4DOS (r) and
          Take Command (r) are registered trademarks and JP Software,
          jpsoft.com, and all JP Software designs and logos are
          trademarks of JP Software Inc. Other product and company names
          are trademarks of their respective owners.

                                                                 06-01
                                                               CONTENTS




     CONTENTS

     Introduction...............................................1
         How to Use This Manual.................................2
         Contacting JP Software.................................3
         Technical Support......................................4
             Support Plans......................................4
             Before You Contact Us..............................4
             Online Support.....................................6
         Registration and Upgrade Information...................7
     Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32.....8
         Built-In Commands......................................9
         The Command Line......................................11
         Networks and Remote Systems...........................14
         The Take Command Window...............................14
         Working with Windows..................................15
         Configuration.........................................15
         Aliases and Batch Files...............................16
     Chapter 2 / Installation..................................19
         Preparing for Installation............................19
         Performing the Installation...........................19
             Installing an Upgrade.............................20
             Branding..........................................20
             Desktop, Registry, and System File Changes........22
         Extracting or Repairing Product Files.................23
         Uninstalling the Program..............................24
     Chapter 3 / The Help System...............................26
         Using the Help System.................................26
         Important Help Topics.................................27
     Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup..........................29
         Primary and Secondary Shells..........................29
         Command Line Options..................................30
         Creating or Modifying Startup Files...................35
         Exit Codes............................................36
     Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes..................37
         4DOS Installation Notes...............................37
             Older Versions of DOS.............................37
         Manual Installation of 4DOS...........................38
             Extracting or Copying the Program Files...........38
             Branding 4DOS.....................................38
             Updating CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT..............39
             Creating or Copying 4DOS.INI......................40
             4DOS Files and Directories........................40
             Creating 4DOS Shortcuts...........................41
         The 4DOS Help System..................................42


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / i
                                                               CONTENTS



         4DOS and Your Computer................................43
         4DOS and DOS..........................................44
         4DOS and Microsoft Windows 95, 98, and ME.............45
             Installing 4DOS Under Windows 95 and Windows 98...46
             Installing the KSTACK Program in Windows 95/98....46
         Using 4DOS on a Network...............................47
             4DOS and Novell Netware...........................47
         Uninstalling 4DOS Manually............................48
     Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes...................50
         4NT Installation Notes................................50
         Using 4NT Under Windows 95, 98, and ME................50
         Manual Installation of 4NT............................52
             Extracting or Copying the Program Files...........52
             Branding 4NT......................................53
             4NT Files and Directories.........................53
         The 4NT Help System...................................55
         Uninstalling 4NT Manually.............................56
     Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration.....57
         Starting Take Command.................................57
         Command Line Options..................................57
         Creating or Modifying Startup Files...................60
         Exit Codes............................................61
         Manual Installation of Take Command/32................61
             Extracting or Copying the Program Files...........62
             Branding Take Command/32..........................62
             Take Command/32 Files and Directories.............62
             Creating Take Command/32 Shortcuts................63
         Character-Mode Applications...........................64
             Caveman...........................................65
         Uninstalling Take Command/32 Manually.................65
     Index.....................................................71



















     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / ii
                                                           INTRODUCTION




     INTRODUCTION

     Welcome, and thanks for using 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command!

     We started developing these products when we realized that our
     computers could be a lot more powerful and a lot more helpful
     than they were.  Whether you are a computer novice or an
     experienced power user, we think that our products will help you
     get the most out of your computer.

     We offer three different products which work with different
     operating systems:

          * You can use 4DOS with all versions of MS-DOS and PC-DOS
            from 3.1 through 7.1 and above, including Windows 95, 98,
            and ME ("MS-DOS 7" is the DOS portion of Microsoft
            Windows 95/98/ME).  You can also use it with all versions
            of DR DOS / Novell DOS / OpenDOS from 3.4 through 7.0 and
            above, and in DOS sessions started under Windows
            95/98/ME, and also under Windows 3.x and OS/2 Warp.

          * You can use 4NT with Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000, and
            Windows 95, 98, and ME.

          * Take Command/32 brings the power of 4DOS and 4NT to the
            Windows desktop and adds many new features.  You can use
            it with Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows ME, Windows NT
            4.0, and Windows 2000.

     Once you have 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command/32 installed, you can
     learn to use it at your own pace.  Each program has more than 100
     commands and hundreds of enhanced features, but you don't have to
     learn them all, or learn them all at once.  Relax, enjoy the
     program's power, and browse through the manual occasionally.
     Press the F1 key whenever you need help.  These programs will
     soon become an essential part of your computer, and you'll wonder
     how you ever got along without them.

     We are constantly working to improve our products.  If you have
     suggestions for features or commands that you think we should
     include in the next version, or any other way we could improve
     our product, please let us know.  Many of the improvements in
     this version were suggested by our users, and while we can't
     promise to include every suggested feature, we really do
     appreciate and consider your comments.

     4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32 are related programs.  You can use
     them to maintain a common working environment and run the same


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 1
                                                           INTRODUCTION



     commands, batch files, and aliases under DOS, Windows 95/98/ME,
     and Windows NT/2000.  Additional products for use on the same
     system are available at a discounted price for current 4DOS, 4NT,
     and Take Command/32 users.

     If you use Windows 3.x or OS/2, we also offer three additional
     legacy products with many similar features (these products are
     not covered in this manual):  Take Command/16 (for Windows 3.x,
     Windows for Workgroups, and Windows sessions in OS/2), and 4OS2
     and Take Command for OS/2 (for OS/2 Warp).

     Our JP CD Suite includes all six products.  Licenses for multiple
     systems are also available.  Contact your software reseller or JP
     Software for more information.

     How to Use This Manual

          This manual is only one part of the documentation that you
          will need for 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command/32.  It introduces
          the products and will help you install them correctly on
          your computer.  It also gives you specific information about
          using the program in your particular environment (for
          example, using 4DOS under Windows 98).

          The second part of our documentation is the online help and
          the Reference Manual.  They contain complete information
          about the commands and features of 4DOS, 4NT, and Take
          Command/32.

          You should start with this introductory manual whether you
          are new to our programs or you are upgrading from a previous
          version.  Once you have successfully installed the program,
          you can move on to the online help or the Reference Manual
          for detailed information on commands, features, and
          configuration.

          The first three chapters of this manual introduce the
          products and help you install the program and its built-in
          help system.  Chapters 4 - 7 contain additional details
          about each product and operating environment.  We encourage
          you to review the material in the later chapters to see what
          applies to you (particularly if you are using 4DOS under
          Windows 95/98/ME).  However, in many cases you will not need
          the information in Chapters 4 - 7 unless you are working at
          a more technical level, or run into some unexpected
          difficulty.

          Most of the first part of this manual describes commands and
          features which are available in all three products.  When we


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 2
                                                           INTRODUCTION



          need to discuss the features or behavior of a single
          product, we mention it specifically in the text.  When an
          entire paragraph or section applies to a specific product,
          we use marginal text to identify that product:

     4DOS marks sections that apply only to 4DOS.

     4NT  marks sections that apply only to 4NT.

     TC   marks sections that apply only to Take Command.

          Each of our products also includes complete online help for
          all commands.  The 4DOS help system can be configured to
          link to help on standard DOS commands as well, if the
          corresponding help files and programs are available on your
          system.  Our online help provides much of the same
          information that is available in this manual and the
          Reference Manual, but in an electronic form which you can
          access quickly.  The online help also includes details about
          changes in the latest version of our products, compatibility
          with other products, and additional technical information.
          See page 26 for more information about the online help.

          Finally, be sure to check README.TXT for last-minute notes
          on the current release, or if you are installing a
          downloaded update to 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command/32.

     Contacting JP Software

          You can contact JP Software at the following addresses and
          numbers.  Our normal business hours are 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM
          weekdays, eastern US time, except on holidays.  Please
          review the following section before contacting us for
          technical support.

               Address:         JP Software Inc.
                                P.O. Box 1470
                                East Arlington, MA 02474
                                USA

               Main number:     (781) 646-3975
               Fax:             (781) 646-0904
               Order Line:      (800) 368-8777   (US / Canada, orders
                                only)

               Online:          Web site:  http://www.jpsoft.com/

                                FTP site:  ftp.jpsoft.com



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 3
                                                           INTRODUCTION



                                Sales / Customer Service:
                                sales@jpsoft.com

               Technical        Standard (no-charge) support:  Available
               Support:         via our online support forum, accessible
                                from the support area of our web site.
                                See page 6 for additional details.  See
                                Technical Support below for additional
                                information on paid support options.

          For access to JP Software files use our web site or FTP site
          listed above.  Our files may also be available from other
          on-line locations, but we can't promise that files
          downloaded from other sites will be the same as files
          provided directly by us, or that they will be up to date.

     Technical Support

          (If you need help with sales, ordering, shipments, brand
          codes, or other similar non-technical issues please contact
          our Sales and Customer Service department.  See the previous
          section for our addresses.)

          Support Plans

          Standard, no-charge support is available electronically
          through our support forum (see page 6).

          We also offer paid support options which include automatic
          upgrades, an email newsletter, and support by private email
          or telephone.  A premium plan with a guaranteed response
          time is also available.

          For complete details on all support options, including plans
          currently offered and support terms and conditions, see our
          web site at http://www.jpsoft.com/.  Support plan
          availability and pricing can change, so be sure to check web
          site for the most up to date information.

          Before You Contact Us

          Before contacting us for support, please check this manual,
          the online help, the Reference Manual if available to you,
          and other documentation for answers to your question.  If
          you can't find what you need, try the Index.  If you're
          having trouble getting 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command/32 to run


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 4
                                                           INTRODUCTION



          properly, see the Troubleshooting, Service, and Support
          topic in the online help for any relevant information (in
          4DOS, check the Compatibility section as well), and look
          through the README.TXT file for any last-minute information
          for your product.

          If you do need to contact us for support, it helps if you
          can give us some basic information.  The first four items
          listed below are essential for us to be able to understand
          and assist you with your problem:

               * What environment are you working in?  This includes
                 the operating system version you are using, the
                 version of the JP Software product involved, and
                 related information such as network connections and
                 the name and version number of any other software
                 which appears to be involved in the problem.  Use
                 the VER /R command to determine the command
                 interpreter and operating system version.

               * What exactly did you do?  A concise description of
                 what steps you must take to make the problem appear
                 is much more useful than a long analysis of what
                 might be happening.

               * What did you expect to happen?  Tell us the result
                 you expected from the command or operation in
                 question, so that we understand what you are trying
                 to do.

               * What actually happened?  At what point did the
                 failure occur?  If you saw an error message or other
                 important or unusual information on the screen, what
                 exactly did it say?

               * Briefly, what techniques did you use to try to
                 resolve the problem?  What results did you get?

               * If the problem seems related to startup and
                 configuration issues, what are the contents of any
                 startup files you use (such as CONFIG.SYS,
                 AUTOEXEC.BAT, 4START, 4EXIT, TCSTART, TCEXIT, and
                 the .INI file), any batch files they call, and any
                 alias or environment variable files they load?

               * Can you repeat the problem or does it occur
                 randomly?  If it's random, does it seem related to
                 the programs you're using when the problem occurs?




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 5
                                                           INTRODUCTION



          If you have a problem with a batch file or complex alias,
          please include an exact copy of the batch file or alias in
          question, as part of the text of your message (not as an
          attachment).  If your batch file is longer than about 25
          lines, please try to reproduce the problem in a smaller test
          file; otherwise it will probably be impossible for us to
          understand and recreate the difficulty you found.

          If you need more in-depth assistance with the development of
          complex batch files or other procedures, please contact us
          for information on consulting services.

          Online Support

          The best way to contact us for technical support is via our
          online support forum, where our support personnel can read
          and respond to your messages, and other users can respond as
          well.  The forum is accessible via several methods; for
          complete details and access links see the support area of
          our web site at http://www.jpsoft.com/.

          A number of other support resources are available from our
          web site, including error message listings, documentation
          files, product histories, technical tips and discussions,
          other technical information, and links to other companies'
          sites.  We update this information regularly, and we
          encourage you to check the Technical Support area of the web
          site to see if the information there will address any
          questions you have.

          If you are unable to gain access to the forum, or you need
          to include confidential information in your support request,
          contact us via email at support@jpsoft.com and we will
          assist you in resolving the problem with forum access, or
          assist you with your request privately if appropriate.
          Please do not use this address for standard support
          questions which can be posted on the forum.

          If you are a paid support customer you should use the
          electronic support forum for routine questions.  To create a
          private support incident refer to the materials sent to you
          with your subscription for contact information, or email
          priority_support@jpsoft.com and include your support ID
          (mail to this address may not be answered if it does not
          include a valid support ID).

          Technical support messages should be sent as standard ASCII
          text.  Please do not transmit attached files, binary files,
          screen images, or any file over 10K bytes in size to any of


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 6
                                                           INTRODUCTION



          our electronic technical support addresses unless asked to
          do so by our support staff.

     Registration and Upgrade Information

          If you purchased 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command/32 from a
          software dealer, your copy came with a registration card.
          Please fill out this card and return it promptly to JP
          Software.  It ensures that we have a record of your
          registration so that we can give you ongoing technical
          support and notices of upgrades.  If you purchased the
          programs directly from JP Software, or ordered an electronic
          copy via our web site, you are already registered and no
          registration card is necessary.

          Once you are a registered user, with each notice of a major
          upgrade you will receive The Prompt Solution, JP Software's
          customer newsletter (newsletters may be delivered physically
          or via email).  The Prompt Solution also includes tips for
          using 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32 and information about
          other products from JP Software.

          Our products are upgraded regularly through maintenance
          releases, designed to fix minor problems or improve
          compatibility, and major upgrades which contain enhancements
          and additional features.  Maintenance releases are
          identified by a change in the hundredths digit of the
          version number, for example from 7.0 to 7.01 or 7.02, or in
          a letter suffix (e.g. 7.01B).  Major upgrades are identified
          by a change in the tenths digit or "ones" digit, for
          example from 7.0 to 7.1 or 8.0.

          Major upgrades can be purchased from JP Software or your
          dealer.  You can download maintenance releases from our web
          site (http://www.jpsoft.com/) or FTP site (ftp.jpsoft.com).
          You can also order physical copies on disk at a nominal
          cost.

          If you want to know when a product update is available,
          visit our web site at http://www.jpsoft.com/.  Notices are
          posted there whenever one or more of our products is
          updated, and email or other automated methods for upgrade
          notification may become available on the web site in the
          future.







     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 7
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32




     Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32

     4DOS and 4NT are command interpreters or "Shells."  That means
     that they display a C:\> or [C:\] prompt, wait for you to type
     something, and then react to your commands (we use the [C:\]
     fomat in this manual, but you can customize the prompt to use any
     format you prefer).  Our programs replace the default command
     interpreters that are supplied with your operating system.  4DOS
     replaces COMMAND.COM for DOS, Windows 95/98/ME, and for DOS
     sessions under OS/2.  4NT replaces CMD.EXE for command sessions
     under Windows NT and Windows 2000.

     We've designed our products so that you don't have to change your
     computing habits or unlearn anything to use them.  If you know
     how to display a directory, copy a file, or start an application
     program from a command prompt, you already know how to use our
     command interpreters -- and if you're not used to using the
     command line, you'll quickly come to value its power and
     flexibility, and appreciate our programs' comprehensive online
     help and the way they make the command prompt straightforward and
     easy to use.

     4DOS and 4NT understand all of the commands you may already know
     and add to them.  Their purpose is to make the command line
     friendlier, easier to use, and much more powerful and versatile
     without requiring you to use or learn a new program, a new set of
     commands, or a new style of work.

     Take Command brings the power and convenience of 4DOS and 4NT to
     the Windows desktop.  You're probably already familiar with
     graphical applications running under Windows and with the command
     line, but you may not be used to seeing them combined in one
     product.  Most graphical applications offer limited command-line
     capability at best, and most command-line utilities aren't
     designed for a graphical environment like Windows desktop.

     We designed Take Command to give you the best of both worlds.
     You'll probably find it most useful when you need to perform
     tasks like managing your hard disk, scripting a series of steps
     with an alias or batch file, or starting applications.  There are
     graphical utilities that perform some of these tasks, but often
     you may find it more convenient or productive to perform them
     from the command line.  Take Command can use fewer resources than
     starting a command-line session, and, unlike a traditional
     command line session, it looks and feels like the other graphical
     programs you use.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 8
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



     Take Command also offers a host of features that couldn't exist
     at all in a command-line utility.  For example, you can pop up
     simple dialogs from a batch file, pass keystrokes to other
     graphical applications, and use a dialog to find files or text on
     any of your disks.

     In this section, we introduce a few of the features we have built
     into our products.  We don't have room to list them all or to
     explain all of the options available in each; that's what the
     online help and Reference Manual are for.  This section will just
     give you a taste of what you can expect from your computer once
     you have your new command interpreter installed.

     As you read through this section, remember that you don't have to
     use any of these features except the ones that appeal to you.
     Learn just the parts that will make your computer easier for you
     to use, and add more features to your repertoire as you find that
     you need them.

     Built-In Commands

          The 4DOS and 4NT command lines, and Take Command's command
          window (see page 14) are the heart of our products.  It is
          here that you type commands for the program to execute, and
          here that the program displays the output of each command.

          Our products support every command you already know, add to
          the features of each command, and also add dozens of new
          commands.

          For example, the traditional DIR command, which displays a
          list of files, has about a dozen options.  The DIR command
          in our products has most of the same options plus about 20
          more.  With the enhanced DIR command, you can:

               * Display a list of files in 1, 2, 4, or 5 columns
                 with the commands:

                      [c:\] dir
                      [c:\] dir /2
                      [c:\] dir /4
                      [c:\] dir /w

               * Use colors to indicate different kinds of files,
                 display file descriptions (text to remind you of the
                 contents of a file) along with file names, and sort
                 files according to several different criteria.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.      4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 9
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



               * Display hidden and system files, along with normal
                 files.  For example, this command displays all of
                 the files in the current directory, whether they are
                 "hidden" or not:

                      [c:\] dir /a

               * Display files of one type or of several types
                 together.  For example, this command lists all .TXT,
                 .DOC, and .ASC files in the current directory:

                      [c:\] dir *.txt;*.doc;*.asc

               * Display files from a single directory or folder,
                 from one part of the directory tree, from a single
                 drive, or from several drives.

               * Use wildcards to display all file names that start
                 with the letter "A", end with the letter "A", or
                 have an "A" anywhere in the name:

                      [c:\] dir a*
                      [c:\] dir *a
                      [c:\] dir *a*

               * If you use Windows 95/98/ME or Windows NT/2000, you
                 can view either "long" file names, "short" file
                 names, or both.

          That's just an example of some of the enhancements we have
          added to one command.  4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command have
          added enhancements to virtually every command you've used
          before and include dozens of new commands as well.  You
          don't have to learn to use them all, but you will find many
          commands and enhancements that will make your computer more
          powerful and easier to use.  For example:

               * COLOR lets you set the default colors to use on your
                 display or in the Take Command window:

                      [c:\] color bright white on blue

                 Additional features let you customize the colors you
                 want to use for parts of the display, for input and
                 output, and for specific kinds of files.

               * LIST displays the contents of files in text or
                 hexadecimal mode, lets you search a file, and can
                 print either an entire file or a single page from a
                 file:


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 10
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



                      [c:\] list readme.txt

               * The FFIND command and the Find Files / Text  option
                 in Take Command's Utilities menu search for files
                 based on their names and their contents.  For
                 example, to find all files on drive C: with the
                 string "now" somewhere within their names:

                      [c:\] ffind /s *now*

                 To find all .TXT files in the current directory
                 which contain the string "then" somewhere in the
                 file:

                      [c:\] ffind /t"then" *.txt

               * SELECT lets you pick the files you want to work with
                 from a "point and shoot" display.  This command,
                 for example, lets you select files from the current
                 directory to copy to the floppy in drive A:

                      [c:\] select copy (*.*) a:

               * EXCEPT lets you work with all of the files in a
                 directory except those that you want to exclude.  It
                 is something like wildcards in reverse.  (A related
                 feature, "exclude" ranges, also works like reverse
                 wildcards, and can be used to exclude files from any
                 internal command.)  This command copies all files
                 from the current directory to drive A: except backup
                 (.BAK and .BK!) files:

                      [c:\] except (*.bak;*.bk!) copy *.* a:

     The Command Line

          4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command are much more than just a
          collection of commands.  They include a number of features
          which make the command line easier to use:

               * Interactive help appears whenever you ask for it and
                 also any time you use a command incorrectly.  Type:

                      [c:\] help

                 when you need help. In Take Command, you can also
                 select Contents from the Help menu.  You can also
                 press F1 to view the help Table of Contents.  If you



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 11
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



                 have typed part of a command, F1 displays help on
                 the first word on the command line.

               * The command line works like a single-line word
                 processor.  You can edit any part of the line at any
                 time before you press Enter to execute it or Esc to
                 erase it.  You can move the cursor left and right by
                 a single character, a single word, or jump to the
                 beginning or end of the line.  You can delete,
                 insert, or type over characters anywhere on the
                 command line.

               * 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command keep track of each
                 command you execute.  You can display past commands,
                 execute them again, or make changes before you
                 execute them.  The past commands can appear on the
                 command line if you press ., or in a pop-up window
                 if you press PgUp.  In Take Command, use Ctrl-. and
                 Ctrl- PgUp.

               * If you don't want to type a complete file name as
                 part of a command, you don't have to.  Just type
                 part of the name and then press the Tab key:  a
                 matching file or directory name will appear on the
                 command line.  Press the Tab key again to see the
                 next matching file.  To choose from all matching
                 files in a pop-up window, press F7 or Ctrl-Tab.

                 The ability to complete filenames easily can be
                 invaluable on a drive with long filenames -- all you
                 have to do is type part of a lengthy file or
                 directory name and press Tab.  The command
                 interpreter fills in the rest, including any
                 quotation marks required for long filenames.

               * 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command keep track of each
                 directory you have visited.  There are many ways to
                 return to previous directories; perhaps the easiest
                 is to press Ctrl-PgUp in 4DOS and 4NT, or F6 in Take
                 Command, to view past directories in a pop-up
                 window.  Select the directory you want, press Enter,
                 and you will immediately change to that directory,
                 even if it is on a different drive.

               * Our programs also use an extended directory search
                 "database" that will help you move, almost
                 instantly, to any directory on any hard drive on
                 your system when you type just part of the directory
                 name.



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 12
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



               * Our programs include features that let you select
                 files by size, date, and time; to use multiple sets
                 of wildcards at once; and to associate applications
                 with their data files.  For example, this command
                 makes it simple to copy all files in the current
                 directory that have been updated in the last week to
                 a backup disk:

                      [c:\] copy /[d-7] *.* a:\

                 Or you can delete all .BAK files that are greater
                 than 1 MB in size:

                      [c:\] del /[s1M] *.bak

                 With a simple change you can make the command delete
                 the same files, but from the entire drive rather
                 than just the current directory (use a command like
                 this with caution!):

                      [c:\] del /[s1M] /s *.bak

               * 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command let you associate file
                 extensions with particular applications.  For
                 example, it's easy to start your word processor and
                 load a letter anytime you type the name of an .LTR
                 file:

                      [c:\] set .LTR=c:\wp\wordproc.exe

                 After you have defined the association, you can
                 start your word processor and have it load your
                 letter to Mom, MOM.LTR, with this command (assuming
                 the file is in the current directory):

                      c:\letters> mom

               * You can also run multiple commands at one time.  If
                 you know the next 3 commands you need to run, you
                 can type them all at once and then sit back while
                 they are executed one at a time.  For example, to
                 copy all of your .TXT files to drive A: and then
                 display the directory of drive A:

  4DOS                c:\> copy *.txt a: ^ dir a:

  4NT, TC             [c:\] copy *.txt a: & dir a:





     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 13
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



     Accessing Networks and Remote Systems

          All of our products can work with accessible files on your
          LAN, whether through mapped drive letters, or standard
          network names like \\SERVER\VOL\filename.

     4NT, In addition, built-in features of 4NT and Take Command let
     TC   you work with any system that's accessible via Internet FTP.
          You can use standard commands like DEL, DIR, COPY, MOVE, and
          REN to  manage files on FTP servers.  Many other features
          also support FTP access, and the IFTP command lets you
          create a persistent FTP connection for use with subsequent
          commands.  Some commands (COPY, MOVE, and REN) can also
          manipulate files on HTTP and HTTPS servers.

     The Take Command Window

          The Take Command window is similar to other applications
          that run on the Windows desktop.  The title bar at the top
          is similar to the one used in most Windows applications,
          with a system menu button on the left and the maximize,
          minimize, and close buttons at the right.  You can move the
          window and adjust its size with a mouse or the keyboard, and
          you can change the text on the title bar and change the
          window's size or position with the WINDOW command.

          The menu bar is also similar to many other applications:

               * The File menu allows you to save or print the screen
                 buffer or exit from Take Command.

               * The Edit menu lets you copy text between the Take
                 Command window and the clipboard.

               * The Apps menu lets you start applications from
                 within Take Command.

               * The Options menu lets you configure Take Command and
                 turn various display options on and off.

               * The Utilities menu lets you use several built-in
                 utilities interactively.

               * The Help menu gives you access to Take Command's
                 online help.

          Most of the menu bar features can also be invoked with typed
          commands if you prefer (for example, OPTION starts the
          option dialogs, and HELP starts the help system).


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 14
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



          The Tool bar lets you execute programs, utilities, and
          commands with the click of a mouse.  You can configure the
          tool bar with any collection of commands and labels you
          wish.

          The Command window accepts your input and displays Take
          Command's output.  You can scroll through the window, save
          or print text from the window, and transfer text between the
          Command Window and the clipboard.

          The Status bar displays information about Take Command and
          your system.

          The use of each portion of the Take Command window and of
          each menu option is explained in detail in the online help
          and in the Reference Manual.

     Working with Windows

          Take Command works with Windows in several ways to make your
          computing more productive:

               * You can use the Windows clipboard to copy text onto
                 the command line, or to transfer text from Take
                 Command to another application.

               * You can use the Windows Drag and Drop feature to
                 insert file names from other applications onto the
                 command line.

               * You can use Take Command to send messages to other
                 Windows applications using Dynamic Data Exchange
                 (DDE).  You can also use DDE to send commands to
                 Take Command from other applications.

               *  Take Command automatically uses Windows' File
                 Associations to associate data files with
                 applications.

     Configuration

          We don't know how you use your computer, or how you would
          like it to work, so we have made our programs as flexible as
          possible.  You can configure almost every part of our
          programs to suit your needs or your whims.  To start the
          configuration utility, type

               [c:\] option



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 15
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



          For example, you can decide what colors to use for what
          purposes, how file names are displayed in command output,
          and command line editing details ranging from the size and
          location of pop-up windows to the shape of the cursor.

     4DOS If conventional memory is tight on your DOS computer, you
          can configure 4DOS to squeeze out every last possible byte,
          using extended (XMS) memory, expanded (EMS) memory, upper
          memory blocks (UMBs), or conventional memory.  In many
          installations, 4DOS uses just 256 bytes of conventional
          memory, leaving as much room free as possible for memory-
          hungry DOS application programs, memory-resident utilities,
          and games.

     Aliases and Batch Files

          We've left two of the most popular and powerful features,
          aliases and batch files, for last.

          Aliases

          Aliases are short sequences of commands which are stored in
          memory for very fast execution.  Aliases can assign complex
          tasks to simple names or single keystrokes, define new
          commands, and set defaults for internal commands and for
          almost any application on your computer.  They are the
          primary method we offer for customizing your command line to
          suit your needs.

          Here are a few examples of how you could define simple
          aliases to make the command line easier to use.  The first
          two provide shorthand names for the DIR command -- D
          displays a directory, and D2 displays a 2-column directory,
          sorted vertically, with a pause at the end of each page:

               [c:\] alias d dir
               [c:\] alias d2 dir /2pv

          Once these definitions have been entered, all you have to do
          is type D or D2 at the prompt to execute the corresponding
          alias.

          You can also define aliases as shorthand ways to execute
          applications, usually without having to add the
          application's directory to your PATH.  For example, this
          alias allows you to just type EDIT to run your editor, even
          if its directory is not on the PATH:

               [c:\] alias edit e:\edfiles\editor.exe


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 16
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



          You can put a whole group of commands into an alias so that
          you can invoke them without typing each one.  This alias
          changes directories, runs the FINPROC program, and changes
          back to the original directory (the back-quotes [`] are used
          to enclose an alias when it contains more than one command).
          This alias should be entered on a single line:

     4DOS      c:\> alias monthly `pushd c:\monthly ^ finproc ^ popd`

     4NT, TC   [c:\] alias monthly `pushd c:\monthly & finproc & popd`

          This short description explains only the basics of what
          aliases can do.  Like most 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command
          features, aliases can be as simple or as complex as you
          like.  You can save your aliases in a file and reload them
          each time the command interpreter starts (otherwise, you'd
          have to redefine them each time); assign aliases to
          keystrokes so they can be invoked quickly; write aliases
          which use other aliases; and use aliases within batch files.
          For complete information on aliases see the online help,
          Chapter 5 of the Reference Manual, and the ALIAS command in
          Chapter 7 of the Reference Manual.

          Batch Files

          A batch file or batch program is a text file that contains a
          list of commands to execute.  4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command
          read and interpret each line as if it had been typed at the
          keyboard.  If you're an experienced batch file programmer,
          or if you want an easy introduction to batch file
          programming, you won't find anything more powerful than our
          built-in batch language.

          The batch language includes simple commands to display
          menus, boxes, lines, and colored text to dress up your batch
          file displays; a full range of user input commands; over 70
          built-in variables that let your batch files test system
          configuration, device status, and free memory and disk
          space; and almost 100 built-in functions that let your batch
          files read from files, find the date, perform calculations,
          and manipulate strings.

          Our batch files run 2 to 10 times faster than traditional
          ones.  They can include subroutines, loops, IF/THEN/ELSE
          logic, and even exception handling.  And you can run them in
          single-step mode to debug them easily, learn exactly what
          each line does, or view changes to environment variables and
          other information as the batch file executes.



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 17
                 Chapter 1 / Introducing 4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command/32



          Here are a couple of examples of simple batch files.  The
          first example displays several pieces of information about
          your system status, using built-in variables provided with
          4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command:

               cls
               echo System status as of %_date at %_time:
               echo CPU:  %_cpu
               echo Coprocessor:  %_ndp
               echo Screen size:  %_rows x %_columns
               echo Boot drive:  %_boot
               echo DOS version:  %_dosver
               echo Command processor version:  %_4ver
               echo Country code:  %_country

          The next example clears the screen, displays a short menu,
          accepts some input from the user, and displays the result (a
          more useful version of this file would actually perform the
          requested action; for now we're just trying to give you the
          overall flavor of our batch enhancements).  The TEXT command
          displays a block of text on the screen, the SCREEN command
          positions the cursor, and the INKEY command accepts a single
          keystroke from the user:

               cls
               screen 5 0
               text
                    Choose an option:
                         1 - Word processing
                         2 - Spreadsheet
                         3 - Load the network
               endtext
               screen +1 0
               inkey Enter your selection: %%sel
               screen +2 0
               echo You entered: %sel

  4NT,   This example prompts for a user name (8 characters
  TC     maximum) and a password (echoed as "*"s, 6 characters
          maximum), in a Windows dialog:

               cls
               querybox /L8 "User Name" Enter user name %%name
               querybox /L6 /P "Password" Enter password %%pword








     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 18
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation




     Chapter 2 / Installation

     4DOS, 4NT, and Take Command normally come with Windows-based
     installation software that makes product installation simple and
     straightforward.  If you are installing our products under
     Windows 95/98/ME or Windows NT/2000, we recommend that you follow
     the directions for automated installation below.

     If you are running in a non-Windows environment, or prefer to set
     up the program yourself, you can extract the installation files
     and perform all installation steps manually.  Manual file
     extraction and installation is covered in detail for each product
     in Chapters 4 - 7.

     Preparing for Installation

          You can install and use each of our products under most
          recent operating system versions.  If you are using an older
          version of any operating system, or you want to use a
          product under a different operating system than the one for
          which it is sold, consult Chapters 4 - 7 (depending on the
          product) for details on compatibility before proceeding with
          installation.

          We strongly recommend that you install your new version of
          4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command in a new directory or folder,
          rather than using the same directory as a previous version,
          or a directory used by other software.

     4DOS When installing 4DOS under Windows 95/98, we also strongly
          recommend that you use a short name for the 4DOS directory
          (i.e. a name where each element of the path uses no more
          than eight characters for the name and three characters for
          the extension, with no white space or other special
          characters).  If you install 4DOS in a directory with a long
          name, you will have to determine the equivalent short name
          and use it throughout the installation process.

     Performing the Installation

          Our products are distributed using several methods.  This
          section explains how to start the automated installation
          software in each case.  In all cases see Chapters 4 - 7 if
          you want a manual rather than automated install.





     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 19
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation



          To start the installation software you can use a command
          prompt, the Run option on the Windows Start menu, or from
          Windows Explorer.

               * If your copy of 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command was
                 downloaded as an .EXE file from our web site or FTP
                 site, or as part of an electronic purchase, simply
                 store the file in a directory of your choosing, and
                 execute it to start the installation process.  The
                 file name will be based on the product and version
                 (e.g. 4DOS700.EXE for 4DOS 7.00).

               * If your copy came on a diskette from JP Software,
                 simply run the installation software from the
                 diskette.  The program name will be SETUP.EXE.

               * If your copy came on a multi-product CD-ROM from JP
                 Software, simply run the installation software from
                 the directory for the desired product.  The program
                 name will be SETUP.EXE.  For example, to  install
                 4NT you would run D:\4NT\SETUP.EXE, where "d:" is
                 the drive letter used for your CD-ROM.

               * If your copy came in a downloaded .ZIP file from our
                 web site or FTP site, then there is no automated
                 installation software.  In this case you must use
                 the manual installation instructions in chapters 4 -
                 - 7.

          Installing an Upgrade

          Use the standard installation instructions below to install
          an upgrade.  The installation procedure is essentially the
          same as when you are installing a new copy of the program.

          If you are upgrading from a previous version, you may have a
          4DOS.INI, 4NT.INI, TCMD.INI and / or 4START, 4EXIT, TCSTART,
          or TCEXIT files in the previous version's directory.  To use
          these files with the new version, you must copy them to the
          new directory, and update the .INI file in some cases.  You
          can allow the installation software to perform these steps
          automatically, or you can perform them yourself at a later
          time (see Chapters 4 - 7 for details).

          "Branding"

          If you received your copy of 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command on a
          JP Software diskette or CD-ROM, you will have a document
          with a serial number and validation code (in some cases you


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 20
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation



          will have a separate document for each product).  If your
          diskette or CD was purchased directly from JP Software the
          brand document will also include your registered name
          (company or individual).

          Similarly, if your copy was purchased electronically the
          registered name, serial number, and validation code are
          included in the materials you received as part of the
          purchase transaction.

          The serial number and validation code constitute your
          license, and are provided only with purchased copies, not
          with trial copies.

          A program which comes with each product checks your
          registered name, serial number, and validation code, and
          saves them for use by 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command.  This
          process, which we call "branding," personalizes your copy
          and removes the "trial copy" or other similar message
          which is displayed if you skip this step.  The actual brand
          program name is based on the product name:

               BR4DOS.EXE     brands 4DOS
               BR4NT.EXE brands 4NT
               BRTC32.EXE     brands Take Command/32

          The way that you obtain and run the branding program depends
          on how you obtained your software:

               * If you purchased your software electronically,
                 either as a new copy or as a major upgrade, and
                 received the branding information via email, the
                 brand program(s) you need will come to you attached
                 to the email message.  Download a trial version of
                 the product from our web site and install it, if you
                 have not done so already.  Then copy the brand
                 program to the directory where the product was
                 installed, and run it from the prompt in that
                 directory, for example:

                    [c:\4nt400] br4nt.exe

               * If you purchased your software on a diskette or CD-
                 ROM from JP Software, either as a new copy or as a
                 major upgrade, the branding program will be
                 installed and run automatically during installation.

               * If you downloaded a trial copy as a minor upgrade
                 from our web site or FTP site, you will need to copy
                 the brand program from the directory where you


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 21
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation



                 installed the previous version.  If the trial copy
                 you downloaded is an .EXE file with automated
                 installation software it will copy the brand program
                 for you if it can find the previous installation.
                 Otherwise, you will have to copy the program to the
                 new directory manually.

          As you follow the instructions from the branding program to
          enter your name, serial number, and validation code, be sure
          that all information is entered exactly as shown in the
          brand document or electronic branding information you
          received.  You cannot change spelling, capitalization, or
          punctuation.

          You may also need to run the branding program when you
          download a maintenance upgrade to any product.  Branding a
          downloaded copy converts it from a timed trial copy to one
          fully registered to you.  For this reason you should save
          your brand document or electronically delivered branding
          information,  in case it is needed for an upgrade.  If you
          lose the branding information there may be a charge to
          replace it, as it must be generated each time you request
          it.

          You can rerun the branding program manually at any time to
          reinstall your name and serial number.  To do so simply
          start the corresponding product, change to the product
          directory, and run the program, for example:

                    [c:\4nt400] br4nt.exe

          Desktop, Registry, and System File Changes

          During automated installation for any product some changes
          are made to the Windows desktop and registry.  These
          changes:

               * Create a JP Software program group on the Start Menu
                 under Programs, and include shortcuts in that group
                 to start the command processor and its online help;

               * Optionally add a shortcut to the Windows desktop to
                 start the command processor;

               * Designate the .BTM files (enhanced batch files) used
                 by JP Software products as batch files.  They will
                 then be recognized as such by the Windows Explorer;




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 22
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation



               * Provide an additional "open" option in the context
                 (mouse button 2) menu of all batch files, to
                 explicitly run the file with 4DOS, 4NT, or Take
                 Command/32; and

               * Create a new entry in the context menu of drives and
                 directories to launch 4DOS, 4NT or Take Command/32
                 in that drive / directory.

          If you need to make these changes manually, or reinstall
          them without reinstalling the software, see the support area
          of our web site for a set of registry extension (.INF) files
          you can download and install.  These files create shortcuts
          and registry changes similar to those made by the
          installation software.  The comments within each file
          explain how to install and uninstall it.

          Automated installation for 4DOS may also modify CONFIG.SYS
          to make 4DOS the primary shell.  See chapter 5 for details
          on performing or reversing this step manually if necessary.

          All of these changes are reversed by the automated uninstall
          process.

     Extracting or Repairing Product Files

          If you need to recover or reinstall individual 4DOS, 4NT, or
          Take Command files you can do so manually, or using the
          automated installation software.  The methods described here
          can also be used to extract the files you need to perform a
          manual installation for any product.

          The method you use depends on what files you have:

               * If you have a downloaded .EXE file, execute the file
                 with a /X switch, for example:

                      c:\download\4nt400.exe /x

                 /X disables the normal automated installation and
                 allows you to select which files you want to
                 extract.  You can also extract files from the .EXE
                 file with an unzip program; see below for details.

               * If you have a diskette from JP Software, run the
                 SETUP.EXE program from the diskette with the /X
                 switch as explained above.  You can also extract
                 files from SETUP.EXE with an unzip program; see
                 below for details.


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 23
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation



               * If you have a multi-product CD-ROM from JP Software,
                 in most cases you can simply copy the desired files
                 from the appropriate directory, as the files are
                 stored individually on the CD and are accessible as
                 normal files.  If you prefer to use the installation
                 software, or cannot find the files you want, run
                 SETUP.EXE from the directory for the desired
                 product, with the /X switch as explained above.

               * If your copy came in a downloaded .ZIP file from our
                 web site or FTP site, then simply extract the files
                 you want using an unzip program.

          Because the .EXE files used for automated installation are
          created in .ZIP format, you can also use an unzip program
          like PKZIP or WinZip to view and/or unzip a downloaded .EXE
          file, or SETUP.EXE from a JP Software diskette.  This allows
          you to extract the files even if  you are not running under
          Windows and cannot use the automated installation system.
          Note that when viewed in .ZIP format the installation .EXE
          file also contains a number of auxiliary files used during
          the automated installation process.  You should avoid
          extracting these files as they perform no useful purpose on
          their own, and will only clutter up the product directory.

     Uninstalling the Program

          We don't expect you to have trouble using our programs, but
          we know some people feel more comfortable knowing how to
          uninstall a product as well as install it.  Or, you may need
          to remove the program from one system to move it to another
          system.

          If you installed your product using the automated
          installation software, go to the Windows Control Panel,
          select Add/Remove Programs, and select the product you want
          to uninstall from there.  You can also start the automated
          uninstall process by manually executing the UNWISE.EXE
          program in the product directory, but in most cases this
          should not be necessary.

          Once the uninstall starts you can select Automatic or
          Custom.  The Automatic option is the simplest and fastest,
          but if you want to control each step of the uninstall
          process select Custom.

          Note that the automated uninstall software normally removes
          the registry changes which designate JP Software .BTM files
          as batch files.  These registry changes affect all JP


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 24
                                               Chapter 2 / Installation



          Software products (see page 22 for details).  If you are
          using multiple products and only uninstalling one of them
          you may not want to remove these registry changes.  In this
          case use the Custom uninstall option, and when prompted for
          the registry changes to reverse, select all changes except
          those made to the Software\Classes registry keys.

          The automated uninstall software will attempt to reverse all
          of the changes made during installation, including
          modifications to your system files and registry.  However,
          in some circumstances (for example, if you manually moved
          the product files to a new directory after automated
          installation was complete), the program may not be able to
          complete all of the steps automatically.  In this case you
          will need to perform some of them manually.

          You will also need to uninstall the program manually if you
          did not use the automated software to install it, or if
          UNWISE.EXE has been deleted.

          See Chapters 5 - 7 for manual uninstall instructions for
          each product.






























     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 25
                                            Chapter 3 / The Help System




     Chapter 3 / The Help System

     All of our products include complete online help.  This chapter
     provides a basic description of how to use the help system, and
     lists important help topics you may want to refer to.

     Using the Help System

          If 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command is running, you can start the
          help system by typing HELP (or HELP plus a command name) at
          the prompt, by pressing the F1 key at any time when the
          command processor is accepting keyboard input at the prompt,
          or from the Help menu in Take Command.  Each of our help
          systems is fully cross-referenced, so you can move easily
          among related topics.

          If you type part or all of a command on the command line and
          then press F1, the help system will provide "context-
          sensitive" help by using the first word on the line as a
          help topic.  If the first word is not a valid help topic you
          will see the Table of Contents.  For example, if you press
          F1 after entering each of the command lines shown below you
          will get the display indicated:

               [c:\]               Table of Contents
               [c:\] copy *.* a:   Help on COPY
               [c:\] c:\util\map   Table of Contents

          If you type the name of any internal command at the prompt,
          followed by a slash and a question mark [/?] like this

               [c:\] copy /?

          then you will see help for the command in a quick-reference
          style.

          Once you've started the help system, you can use a standard
          set of keystrokes or mouse actions to navigate through the
          help text.

          Each help system can also be started "manually" (i.e.,
          without 4DOS, 4NT, or Take Command running), and contains
          information which may be helpful if you encounter
          difficulties setting up the program or configuring it for
          your system.  See Chapters 4 - 7 for details on starting the
          help system manually.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 26
                                            Chapter 3 / The Help System



     Important Help Topics

          The help system includes documentation for all 4DOS, 4NT, or
          Take Command commands and features.  It also includes many
          other topics which may be of interest to you as you use the
          program or which you may need for advanced installations.

          This section lists some topics in the help system which you
          may find useful:

               * The sections titled 4DOS.INI, 4NT.INI, or
                 Configuring Take Command cover the .INI file and the
                 related dialogs, including reference information on
                 all .INI file directives.

               * Starting Take Command, Starting 4DOS, or Starting
                 4NT (under Setup and Troubleshooting) explains the
                 startup command line, and contain links to related
                 startup and configuration topics such as 4START and
                 TCSTART.

               * What's New explains changes in recent versions of
                 the command processor.  Be sure to review this
                 information before working with any upgrade.  This
                 section covers the current release and any prior
                 releases of the same major version.  For older
                 historical information see our web site at
                 http://www.jpsoft.com/.

               * Troubleshooting, Service, and Support (under Setup
                 and Troubleshooting) includes a list of error
                 messages and a discussion of useful diagnostic and
                 troubleshooting techniques.  It also contains
                 information on contacting JP Software for technical
                 support, sales, customer service, and other similar
                 matters.

               * Reference Tables (under Reference Information)
                 includes comprehensive lists of ASCII characters and
                 keyboard codes.

     4DOS      * Compatibility discusses using 4DOS with products
                 from other companies, including additional details
                 on using 4DOS with Windows 95/98/ME.

     4DOS      * External (DOS) Help provides access to the MS-DOS /
                 PC-DOS help system.  This feature will only work if
                 the 4DOS help program can find the DOS help program
                 on your disk (see the External Help topic itself for



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 27
                                            Chapter 3 / The Help System



                 details), and if the 4DOS help program has enough
                 memory to execute DOS help.


















































     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 28
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup




     Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup

     This chapter explains startup options for 4DOS and 4NT under
     various operating systems.  For additional details on manual
     installation and configuration of 4DOS see chapter 5 on page 37;
     for 4NT see chapter 6 on page 50.  For information on Take
     Command, see chapter 7 on page 57.

     Once you have 4DOS or 4NT installed on your computer, the program
     is ready to run.  However, you can configure each program in
     various ways to suit your needs and preferences.  Most of the
     configuration or behavior of each program is controlled by
     aliases you create (explained in the online help and in Chapter 4
     of the Reference Manual) and by the .INI file (explained briefly
     below, and in detail in the online help and in Chapter 5 of the
     Reference Manual).

     A few configuration options can also be set on the startup
     command line, which is explained here.  In order to understand
     the startup command line you will also need to understand primary
     and secondary shells, so that topic is covered first.

     If you do not need to alter the startup behavior of 4DOS or 4NT,
     you can skip the remainder of this chapter.  If you are using our
     products under any flavor of Windows, we recommend that you read
     through this chapter, since each time you create a desktop object
     to run the command interpreter you will have to create a startup
     command line for that object.

     Primary and Secondary Shells

          4DOS and 4NT can be run as either primary or secondary
          shells.

          Under DOS and Windows 95/98, a primary shell is started from
          the CONFIG.SYS file with a SHELL= command.  Secondary shells
          are started when a program "shells" to the DOS prompt or
          runs a "transient" (temporary) shell to execute a specific
          command, or when you explicitly start a new shell from a
          desktop object under Windows 95/98.

          Under Windows NT/2000, a primary shell is started each time
          you start a new command-line session or window from the
          desktop.  A secondary shell is started when a program
          "shells" to the command prompt, or runs a "transient"
          (temporary) shell to execute a specific command.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 29
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



          Whenever you start a primary or secondary shell, you can
          control the way that 4DOS or 4NT starts by adjusting the
          startup command line.

     Command Line Options

          A few of the command-line switches or options that 4DOS and
          4NT recognize are required in certain circumstances; most
          others are needed only if you want finer control over the
          way the program starts.

          The line that starts 4DOS or 4NT will typically include the
          program name with drive and path, repeat the name of the
          directory where the program is stored, and finally include
          any switches for the program, for example:

               e:\4dos700\4dos.com e:\4dos700 /p

          This command line may appear on its own (for example, in a
          Windows desktop object), or in an operating system directive
          (e.g. the SHELL command in the DOS or Windows 95/98
          CONFIG.SYS file).  Specific details on where you should
          enter the command line for each product are included in
          Chapters 5 and 6.

          Although the startup command line is usually very simple,
          you can add a number of options if you need to customize the
          way the command interpreter starts.  The complete syntax for
          the startup command line is:

               d:\path\program [d:\path] [@d:\path\inifile]
               [//iniline] [/D /E:nnnn /F /L /LA /LD /LH /P[:filename]
               /Q /S /T:bf /X /Y] [[/C | /K] command]

          Do not include the square brackets shown in the command line
          above.  They are there to indicate that the items within the
          brackets are optional.  Not all options are available in
          both 4DOS and 4NT; see below for details.

          If you include any of the options below, you should use them
          in the order that they are described.  If you do not do so,
          you may find that they do not operate properly.

          The following items can be included on the command line:

               * d:\path\program:  The path and name of the
                 executable program file (4DOS.COM or 4NT.EXE).  It
                 is required to start 4DOS or 4NT.



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 30
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



               * d:\path:  This is the second d:\path in the command
                 line above.  It sets the drive and directory where
                 the program is stored, called the COMSPEC path.
                 4DOS and 4NT use this path to find their files and
                 to set the COMSPEC environment variable (see your
                 online help or Reference Manual for more information
                 on COMSPEC).

     4DOS        Under 4DOS, this option is generally required for
                 the primary shell, but not for secondary shells.  In
                 some cases the primary 4DOS shell can find its
                 directory automatically and this option is not
                 needed, but we recommend that you use it on all
                 primary shells to ensure that the directory is
                 found.

                 If you are running Windows 95/98 and you do not load
                 4DOS as the primary shell in CONFIG.SYS, or if you
                 are running Windows ME, you must use this option in
                 each desktop object or shortcut command line to
                 allow 4DOS to find its files.

     4NT         4NT normally knows what drive and directory it is
                 started from, so this option is not usually
                 necessary, though it is allowed.

               * @d:\path\inifile:  This option sets the path and
                 name of the .INI file.  You don't need this option
                 if you aren't using an .INI file at all, or if the
                 file has the default name (4DOS.INI or 4NT.INI) and
                 it is either in the same directory as the executable
                 program or in the root directory of the boot drive.
                 This option is most useful if you want to start the
                 program with a specific and unique .INI file.

               * //iniline:  This option tells 4DOS or 4NT to treat
                 the text appearing between the // and the next space
                 or tab as an .INI directive.  The directive should
                 be in the same format as a line in the .INI file,
                 but may not contain spaces, tabs, or comments.
                 Directives on the command line override any
                 corresponding directive in the .INI file.  This
                 option may be repeated.  It is a convenient way to
                 place a few simple directives on the startup line
                 without having to modify or create a new .INI file.

     4DOS      * /D:  In 4DOS only, this option disables execution of
                 AUTOEXEC.BAT (or the file named in the AutoExecPath
                 directive in 4DOS.INI).  It is intended for internal
                 use by DOS and Windows 95/98.  When you press the F8


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 31
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



                 or Ctrl key during the boot process, MS-DOS prompts
                 for whether to run AUTOEXEC.BAT.  If you answer
                 "No", the /D switch is used to relay your choice to
                 4DOS.  This option is not available in 4NT.

     4DOS      * /E:nnnn:  In 4DOS only, this option sets the size of
                 the environment in bytes.  If you don't use this
                 option, 4DOS will allocate 512 bytes for the
                 environment.  You can use any value from 160 to
                 32767 as the environment size.  For example, to set
                 an environment of 1,000 bytes, you would enter the
                 option as /E:1000.

                 You can also set the environment size with the
                 Environment directive in the 4DOS.INI file (see your
                 online help or Reference Manual).  We recommend that
                 you use the directive instead of the /E switch, so
                 that all configuration information is kept in one
                 place in the 4DOS.INI file.

     4NT         4NT allocates space in the environment dynamically
                 instead of using a fixed amount of space.
                 Therefore, this option is not available in 4NT.

     4DOS      * /F:  This option tells 4DOS to automatically provide
                 a Fail response to all critical errors, without
                 prompting or waiting for a user response.  It is
                 rarely used except on systems that must run
                 unattended.  We do not recommend use of this option
                 on a normal system, because you will not have a
                 chance to react to a critical error and correct the
                 problem that caused it.  For more information on
                 critical errors see the online help or the Reference
                 Manual.  /F only affects critical errors detected by
                 4DOS, and will not affect critical error handling
                 for many application programs which perform this
                 function themselves.  It is equivalent to the
                 directive CritFail=Yes in 4DOS.INI.

                 The /F option is not available in 4NT.

               * /L, /LA, /LD, and /LH:  These options force 4DOS or
                 4NT to use a local alias, directory history, and /
                 or command history list.  They can be used to
                 override any LocalAlias=No, LocalHistory=No, or
                 LocalDirHistory=No settings in the .INI file.  This
                 allows you to use global lists as the default, but
                 start a specific shell or session with local aliases
                 or histories.  See your online help or Reference
                 Manual for details on local and global aliases and


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 32
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



                 histories.  /LA forces local aliases, /LD forces
                 local directory history, /LH forces local command
                 history, and /L forces all three -- local aliases,
                 command history, and directory history.

     4DOS      * /P[:filename]:  This option tells 4DOS to load
                 permanently and to run AUTOEXEC.BAT.  If you specify
                 a filename after the /P, that file will be run
                 instead of AUTOEXEC.BAT.  You should specify the
                 full name of the file, including drive and
                 directory.  A filename after /P will override the
                 AutoExecPath option in 4DOS.INI.

                 When 4DOS is loaded from the SHELL= command in
                 CONFIG.SYS it will normally detect that it is the
                 primary shell and set the /P option automatically.
                 Under very rare circumstances, you may want to load
                 4DOS permanently and have it run AUTOEXEC.BAT even
                 though you are not loading it from CONFIG.SYS; in
                 such cases you must set /P yourself.  4DOS will not
                 run AUTOEXEC.BAT without either an automatic or an
                 explicit /P.  Do not use this option in secondary
                 shells, or you will be unable to return to the
                 primary shell.

                 The /P option is not available in 4NT.

     4NT       * /Q:  This option, which is only available in 4NT,
                 has no effect.  It is included only for
                 compatibility with CMD.EXE.

     4NT       * /S:  This option tells 4NT that you do not want it
                 to set up a Ctrl-C / Ctrl-Break handler.  It is
                 included for compatibility with CMD.EXE, but it may
                 cause the system to operate incorrectly if you use
                 this option without other software to handle Ctrl-C
                 and Ctrl-Break.  This option should be avoided by
                 most users.  It is not available under 4DOS.

     4NT       * /T:bf:  This option sets the foreground and
                 background colors in the 4NT window.  Both b and f
                 are hexadecimal digits; b specifies the background
                 color and f specifies the foreground color.  This
                 option is included only for compatibility with
                 CMD.EXE; in most cases you should set default colors
                 with the StdColors directive in 4NT.INI, or the
                 corresponding Output Colors option on the Display
                 page of the 4NT configuration dialogs.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 33
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



     4NT       * /X:  This option forces 4NT to alter the operation
                 of the MD and MKDIR command to automatically create
                 all necessary intermediate directories when it
                 creates a new subdirectory.  Its effect is the same
                 as adding a /S option to all MD and MKDIR commands
                 (see the online help or Reference Manual for details
                 about the MD /S command).  This option is included
                 for compatibility with CMD.EXE.  In CMD.EXE it
                 enables other options as well, but in 4NT the only
                 option not enabled by default is the implicit MD /S.

     4DOS      * /Y:  This option forces 4DOS to enable the batch
                 file debugger for 4START and AUTOEXEC.BAT (or the
                 file named in the AutoExecPath directive in
                 4DOS.INI).  It is intended for internal use by DOS
                 and Windows 95/98.  When you press the F8 key to
                 enable single-stepping during the boot process and
                 then elect to single-step through AUTOEXEC.BAT, the
                 /Y switch is used to relay your choice to 4DOS.
                 This option is not available in 4NT.

               * [/C | /K] command:  This option tells 4DOS or 4NT to
                 run a specific command after starting.  The command
                 will be run after 4START, and after AUTOEXEC.BAT in
                 a 4DOS primary shell.  The command will be run
                 before the prompt is displayed.  The command can be
                 any valid alias, internal or external command, or
                 batch file.  All other startup options must be
                 placed before the command, because the command
                 interpreter will treat characters after the command
                 as part of the command and not as additional startup
                 options.

                 When the command is preceded by a /C, 4DOS or 4NT
                 will execute the command and then exit and return to
                 the parent program or the desktop without displaying
                 a prompt.  This is sometimes called a "transient"
                 command interpreter session.

                 In 4NT, and in 4DOS when it is started as a
                 secondary shell (for example from the Windows
                 desktop), the /K switch has no effect; using it is
                 the same as placing the command (without a /C or /K)
                 at the end of the startup command line.  It is
                 included only for compatibility with COMMAND.COM
                 and CMD.EXE.

     4DOS        When you start 4DOS from the SHELL= line in MS-DOS /
                 PC-DOS 6.x and use /K, the command will be executed
                 instead of AUTOEXEC.BAT (for compatibility with MS-


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 34
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



                 DOS / PC-DOS 6.x COMMAND.COM).  This behavior occurs
                 only in MS-DOS / PC-DOS 6.x, not in other DOS
                 versions or in Windows 95/98.

          For example, this command line will start 4DOS, execute any
          4START file you have created, execute the file START.BTM,
          and then display the prompt:

               c:\4dos700\4dos.exe c:\4dos700\start.btm

          This command line will start 4NT, select local aliases,
          execute any 4START file you have created, execute the file
          PROCESS.BTM, and then exit when PROCESS.BTM is done.  The
          prompt will not be displayed by this session:

               c:\4nt\4nt.exe /la /c c:\4nt\process.btm

     Creating or Modifying Startup Files

          Each of our products uses two files to control the way it
          starts:  a file of configuration information called the .INI
          file (named 4DOS.INI or 4NT.INI), and a startup batch file
          called 4START (depending on your operating system, 4START
          may have the extension .BTM, .BAT, or .CMD).

          The .INI file is optional in 4NT and required in 4DOS (see
          page 40 for details).  The .INI file for each command
          processor should be placed in the same directory as the
          other files for that product.  You can add additional
          information to the .INI file manually with an ASCII editor,
          or you can use the OPTION command to aid you in selecting
          configuration options.

          The 4START file is also optional.  It is executed each time
          4DOS or 4NT starts, and gives you a convenient way to load
          aliases and environment variables, and otherwise initialize
          the command processor -- especially under 4NT, which does
          not use an AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  4START is normally placed in
          the same directory as the other product files, but this may
          vary if you use the same 4START file for more than one
          product.

          For complete details on startup files, on the OPTION
          command, and on the 4EXIT file (executed when the command
          processor exits), see the online help or the Reference
          Manual.

          If you are upgrading from a previous version of 4DOS or 4NT,
          you may have a .INI file and / or a 4START (or 4EXIT) file


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 35
                                       Chapter 4 / 4DOS and 4NT Startup



          in the previous version's directory.  To use these files
          with your new version, you must copy them to the new
          directory, and then update any paths in either file which
          point to the old program directory.

     Exit Codes

          If you start 4DOS or 4NT from another program (e.g. to run a
          batch file or internal command), it will return a numeric
          code to the other program when it is finished.  This code is
          usually used to indicate whether the operation performed was
          successful or not, with 0 often indicating success and a
          non-zero value indicating a failure or other numeric result.

     4DOS In 4DOS, the exit code is normally the numeric exit code
          from the last external command.  Internal commands do not
          set the exit code.

     4NT  In 4NT, the exit code is normally the numeric exit code from
          the last internal or external command.  However, for
          compatibility reasons and to avoid conflicts with external
          commands, only some internal commands set the exit code;
          others leave it unchanged from the most recent external
          command.

          If you enter an unknown command the exit code will be 2,
          which is the internal 4DOS and 4NT unknown command error
          number.

          In both 4DOS and 4NT you can use the EXIT n command to
          explicitly set the exit code.  If you do, this will override
          the rules above, and set the return code to the value in
          your EXIT command.

          The normal rules described above may not return a code that
          indicates the success or failure of the specific operation
          that concerns you.  Therefore, if you need to rely on the
          exit code from 4DOS or 4NT, we recommend that you use a
          batch file or alias to create the exit code you want, and
          then set the code explicitly with EXIT n.











     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 36
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes




     Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes

     This chapter covers manual installation and configuration of
     4DOS.  For information on startup options for 4DOS and 4NT under
     various operating systems see chapter 4 on page 29.   For 4NT
     configuration see chapter 6 on page 50.  For information on Take
     Command, see chapter 7 on page 57.

     4DOS works well with virtually all PC hardware; with a wide range
     of operating systems and environments, including MS DOS, PC-DOS,
     Novell DOS / OpenDOS / DR-DOS, Windows 3.x, Windows 95 / 98 / ME,
     and OS/2; and with all DOS-based, Windows-based, and OS/2-based
     networks.  Each environment makes different demands on 4DOS and
     the user.

     4DOS is not recommended for use under Windows NT or Windows 2000,
     or supported in those environments.  If you are running Windows
     NT/2000, use 4NT or Take Command/32.

     This chapter provides the basic information you need to run 4DOS
     in any of the standard PC environments.  If you need more
     detailed technical information or troubleshooting assistance on
     any of these topics, consult the Troubleshooting, Service, and
     Support and Compatibility topics in the 4DOS online help.

     4DOS Installation Notes

          When installing 4DOS under Windows 95/98/ME, we strongly
          recommend that you use a short name for the 4DOS directory
          (i.e. a name where each element of the path uses no more
          than eight characters for the name and three characters for
          the extension, with no white space or other special
          characters).  If you install 4DOS in a directory with a long
          name, you will have to determine the equivalent short name
          and use it throughout the installation process.

          Older Versions of DOS

          If you're running DOS 5 or earlier, we recommend that you
          make a bootable system diskette before you install 4DOS (or
          any other software, for that matter).  This allows you to
          recover in case of a power failure, error, or other
          interruption during the installation process.  See your DOS
          documentation for details about creating a bootable floppy
          disk.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 37
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          In DOS 6 and above and in Windows 95/98/ME, a bootable disk
          usually is not necessary because the F5 and F8 keys can be
          used to skip steps in the boot process and recover from
          errors in configuration files.

     Manual Installation of 4DOS

          This section is for advanced users, and assumes you are
          generally familiar with CONFIG.SYS, AUTOEXEC.BAT, and other
          concepts such as ASCII editors and batch files.  In most
          cases, manual installation is not necessary because you can
          use the automated installation program.

          In order to install 4DOS manually, you must extract or copy
          the necessary files, brand 4DOS if necessary, create or
          modify any configuration files you need, and then create the
          necessary commands to start the program on your system.

          Extracting or Copying the Program Files

          When you extract or copy the 4DOS files, be sure to place
          them in their own directory, rather than using the same
          directory as a previous version of the program, a directory
          used by other JP Software products, or a directory used by
          other software.

          We strongly recommend that you place all of the 4DOS files
          in the same directory.  See 4DOS Files and Directories on
          page 40 for some important considerations if you choose not
          to follow this recommendation.

          The method used to extract or copy the files depends on how
          you obtained your copy of the program.  The various methods
          are described on page 23.

          "Branding" 4DOS

          (If you are not familiar with branding, refer to the general
          information on page 20 before continuing with this section.)

          If you performed an automated installation the installation
          software will normally run the BR4DOS program to install
          your name, serial number, and validation code in 4DOS.  If
          you need to brand 4DOS manually, go to a 4DOS or COMMAND.COM
          prompt, change to the directory where 4DOS is stored, and
          enter the command:

               c:\4dos700> br4dos


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 38
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          Follow the instructions displayed by BR4DOS to enter your
          name, serial number, and validation code.  All information
          must be entered exactly as shown on your original brand
          card, label, or electronically delivered branding
          information; you cannot change spelling, capitalization, or
          punctuation.

          Updating CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT

          (Please Note:  If you installed 4DOS to a directory with a
          long name under Windows 95/98, you must determine the
          equivalent short name for use when updating CONFIG.SYS and
          AUTOEXEC.BAT.  Paths in these files can not be entered in
          long name format.)

          When you're ready to finish installing 4DOS, you need to add
          one line to your DOS or Windows 95/98 CONFIG.SYS file:

               SHELL=d:\path\4DOS.COM d:\path /P

          "d:\path" means the drive and directory where 4DOS.COM is
          stored.  The second "d:\path" on the SHELL= line should be
          the same as the first, and is used to set the COMSPEC
          environment variable properly.  Be sure to delete or REMark
          out any old SHELL= line when you add the new line for 4DOS.

          You can add any command line options to the end of the line.
          See Chapter 4 on page 29 for information on command line
          options.

          If you are running 4DOS under DOS 4.01 or earlier, see the
          Compatibility section in the online help for notes on the
          length of the SHELL= line.

          Next, if you are running under DOS (without Windows
          95/98/ME), add the following line to your AUTOEXEC.BAT file:

               d:\path\KSTACK.COM

          where "d:\path" is the drive and directory where your 4DOS
          files are stored.  KSTACK.COM is a memory-resident program
          used to support the KEYSTACK command.  It requires about 1K
          of memory, and can be left out of AUTOEXEC.BAT if you do not
          use KEYSTACK.

          Do not add the KSTACK line to AUTOEXEC.BAT if you are using
          Windows 95/98.  Under these operating systems, KSTACK should
          be loaded separately for each 4DOS session; see page 46 for
          details.


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 39
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          If you have a line in AUTOEXEC.BAT which sets the COMSPEC
          environment variable to point to COMMAND.COM, remove it or
          REMark it out.  If you set up the CONFIG.SYS file properly,
          4DOS will set this variable automatically; setting it in
          AUTOEXEC.BAT is likely to cause trouble later on (for
          example, if you install an update to 4DOS in a different
          directory, but forget to change the COMSPEC setting).

          When you've finished modifying CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT,
          you can reboot your system to start 4DOS.

          Creating or Copying 4DOS.INI

          (For general information on the .INI file see page 35.)

          4DOS requires a 4DOS.INI file with at least one line in it:

               InstallPath = d:\path

          where "d:\path" is the drive and directory where your 4DOS
          files are stored (under Windows 95/98, this must be the
          short name of the directory; long names cannot be used).
          This will help 4DOS locate its auxiliary files, such as the
          help files and OPTION.EXE.  The automated installation
          process always places this line in 4DOS.INI.  If you need to
          create the file manually, you can do so with any ASCII file
          editor.  The InstallPath setting should be the first line in
          the file.

          If you are upgrading from a previous version of 4DOS, you
          should copy any 4DOS.INI file you have in the old directory
          to the new one.  Then add or modify the InstallPath
          directive at the beginning of 4DOS.INI, and update any paths
          in the file which point to the old program directory (e.g.
          4StartPath).

          4DOS Files and Directories

          We strongly recommend that you place all 4DOS files in the
          same directory.  If you do not do so, you will have to
          explicitly set the locations of 4DOS files to avoid
          problems.

          You may feel that you should place 4DOS.COM in the root
          directory because it is a system-related file.  We do not
          recommend this practice; 4DOS will run just fine from its
          own directory, and keeping it there makes configuration much
          simpler.



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 40
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          If you do wish to move files to different directories, the
          following information will help you set up the programs
          correctly:

               4DOS.COM is the 4DOS program file.  It must be in the
               directory specified by the SHELL= line in your DOS or
               Windows 95/98 CONFIG.SYS file, or the directory
               specified on the command line in every desktop object
               used to start 4DOS.

               4HELP.EXE is the 4DOS help program.  For online help to
               work, this file must be in the 4DOS installation
               directory shown in the InstallPath directive in
               4DOS.INI, or in a directory included in your PATH.

               4DOS.HLP contains the text for the 4DOS help program.
               It must be in the same directory as 4HELP.EXE, or in a
               directory included in your PATH.

               KSTACK.COM is the used by the KEYSTACK command.  If you
               wish to use the KEYSTACK command, this file should be
               loaded in your AUTOEXEC.BAT file (under DOS) or
               separately for each 4DOS session (under Windows
               95/98/ME; see page 46 for details).  This file does not
               have to be in the 4DOS directory.  If KSTACK.COM has
               not been loaded, you will see an error message when you
               attempt to use the KEYSTACK command.

               OPTION.EXE is a utility used by the OPTION command to
               configure 4DOS.  For the OPTION command to work, this
               file must be in the 4DOS installation directory shown
               in the InstallPath directive in 4DOS.INI, or in a
               directory included in your PATH.

          Creating 4DOS Shortcuts and Registry Extensions

          When 4DOS is installed using automated installation software
          it normally creates Start menu entries and registry
          extensions as described on page 22.  The installation
          software can also create a desktop shortcut for 4DOS.

          If you need to create a Start menu entries or desktop
          shortcuts manually -- for example, if the JP Software group
          on the Start menu is inadvertently damaged or deleted --
          you can use the Windows Explorer's facilities to do so:

               * To create additional shortcuts elsewhere on the
                 Start menu, or modify the Programs entries, click
                 mouse button 2 in an open area of the Task Bar, and


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 41
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



                 select Properties on the popup menu.  Select the
                 Start Menu Programs tab and modify or adjust the
                 menus as required.

               * To create one or more shortcuts on the desktop to
                 run 4DOS, click with mouse button 2 in any open area
                 of the desktop.  On the popup menu click New, then
                 Shortcut.  Fill in the drive and path as
                 d:\path\4DOS.COM (use the appropriate drive and path
                 for your system).

          You can also put command-line switches, a command, or the
          name of a batch file at the end of the command line for any
          shortcut.  This allows you to run specific commands or set
          configuration options when you start 4DOS from that
          shortcut.  For details on the command line options
          available, see Chapter 4 and the Starting 4DOS section of
          the online help.

          For more information on creating and configuring shortcuts
          or modifying the Start Menu, see your Windows documentation.

          If you want to make these changes as a group, or reinstall
          shortcuts and registry extensions without reinstalling 4DOS,
          see the support area of our web site for a set of registry
          extension (.INF) files you can download and install.  These
          files create shortcuts and registry changes similar to those
          made by the installation software.  The comments within each
          file explain how to install and uninstall it.

     The 4DOS Help System

          The 4DOS help program is called 4HELP.EXE; the help text is
          stored in the file 4DOS.HLP.  The 4DOS help system provides
          complete help for 4DOS commands and features; on most
          systems it can also launch the DOS help program to display
          help on external DOS commands like FORMAT or SORT.

          The section entitled The 4DOS Help System within the help
          system itself explains navigation keystrokes and mouse usage
          in more detail, as well as instructions on linking the help
          system to DOS help or other help programs.

          If you do not have 4DOS running, you can start the help
          system by moving into the directory that contains your 4DOS
          files (we assume that you are using C:\4DOS700 in this
          example) and typing this command:

               C:\4dos700> 4help


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 42
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          You can use this command if you are unable to install 4DOS
          completely for some reason; information in the help system
          will likely help you solve the problem.

     4DOS and Your Computer

          4DOS will work on any IBM PC-compatible hardware, regardless
          of the CPU type, amount of memory (assuming the minimum 256K
          or so required to run 4DOS is available), disk
          configuration, or video hardware.  The notes below briefly
          cover memory, video, and disk issues.

          Memory

          4DOS knows how to use XMS memory, EMS memory, and Upper
          Memory Blocks (UMBs) in order to minimize the amount of
          space it takes in the 640K of DOS memory available to your
          application programs.  You can control 4DOS's memory usage
          with directives in the 4DOS.INI file.  For more details
          about configuring 4DOS's memory usage see Initialization
          Directives under .INI File Directives in the 4DOS.INI
          section of the online help.  You can also set most memory
          usage options easily from the Startup page of the OPTION
          command's dialogs.

          By default, 4DOS uses normal DOS memory ("low memory") for
          its small resident portion of about 3 - 4K.  4DOS can reduce
          its low memory usage by moving most of this information to
          Upper Memory Blocks (UMBs), when requested with UMBLoad and
          other UMB-related directives in the 4DOS.INI file.

          Low memory is also used to hold the larger (about 230K)
          transient portion of 4DOS while your system is at the
          prompt, or executing an internal 4DOS command or batch file.
          When an external application is running 4DOS moves its
          transient portion to EMS or XMS memory (or the hard disk),
          so the memory is available to the application.  For
          additional details see the online help or the Reference
          Manual, and in particular the documentation on the Swapping
          directive in 4DOS.INI.

          Video

          4DOS can normally adjust itself to your video hardware
          automatically, regardless of your video adapter and the
          number of rows and columns on your screen.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 43
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          Most video problems turn out to be unrelated to 4DOS, and
          are often due to the underlying operating environment (for
          example, attempting to display blinking text in a window
          when the underlying environment does not support this
          feature).

          If you experience scrolling or color problems, you should
          also check whether you have an ANSI driver installed, and if
          so verify that it is configured correctly and can support
          your video hardware.

          Disk Drives

          4DOS supports all types of disks including floppy disks,
          hard disks, high-capacity removable disks, compressed
          drives, network drives, and RAM disks.  4DOS never directly
          modifies the FAT, root directory, subdirectories, or other
          system areas of the disk, and it doesn't write any data on
          your disk itself.  It always calls on DOS to perform these
          actions, just like most application programs do.  As a
          result, 4DOS is compatible with all disk sizes, formats, and
          structures that your DOS or Windows version supports.

          If you receive unexpected results related to a disk drive or
          disk file (for example, an apparent error in the amount of
          free space on a drive, or an "access denied" message when
          attempting to use a file you thought was available), chances
          are that 4DOS is merely reporting information provided by
          the operating system, and is not the original source of the
          problem.

     4DOS and DOS

          4DOS is compatible with MS-DOS or PC-DOS 3.1 and above, DR
          DOS / Novell DOS / OpenDOS 3.4 and above, Windows 95 / 98 /
          ME (and their built-in version of DOS, "MS-DOS 7"), and
          OS/2 DOS sessions.  See page 45 for additional important
          information on Windows 95/98.  See the online help for
          information on OS/2.

          More detailed information on 4DOS and DOS is covered in the
          Compatibility section of the online help.  If you use any of
          the DOS versions or features listed below, you may want to
          check that topic for additional information.  This is only a
          partial list of the DOS-related items discussed in the
          online help.  Inclusion of an item here does not mean it is
          incompatible with 4DOS, but only that more information on it
          is available in the help system.  The help system includes
          information you may need if you use:


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 44
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



               * Any version of DR DOS, Novell DOS, or OpenDOS.

               * Utilities which allow multiple configurations in
                 your DOS CONFIG.SYS file, including the MS-DOS or
                 Windows 95/98 multiple configuration feature.

               * The MS-DOS APPEND utility.

               * The FORMAT /S and SYS commands (used to create a
                 bootable floppy disk) under MS-DOS or PC-DOS version
                 4.0 or above.

               * The DBLSPACE and DRVSPACE disk compression
                 utilities.

               * The MS-DOS 6.x and Windows 95/98 HELP command.

               * The FASTOPEN utility.

               * The MS-DOS 6.x and Windows 95/98 MOVE command.

               * The MS-DOS / PC-DOS 6.x SMARTDRV disk cache.

     4DOS and Microsoft Windows 95/98/ME

          This section provides basic information on using 4DOS under
          Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows ME.  For additional
          details see the Compatibility section in the online help.

          4DOS works well as both the primary shell, loaded before
          Windows 95/98, and when loaded from the Windows 95/98
          desktop.  Under Windows ME 4DOS can only be loaded from the
          desktop, not as a primary shell before Windows starts.

          If you are using 4DOS under Windows 95 or Windows 98, we
          strongly recommend that you install it as the primary shell
          in CONFIG.SYS (this is the way 4DOS is normally installed).
          If you do not install 4DOS as the primary shell, individual
          4DOS sessions will not be able to share global alias and
          history lists; each 4DOS session will have to process the
          .INI file before it starts; and, if you have two or more
          4DOS sessions running simultaneously from the Windows
          desktop, they will use more system resources than they would
          if 4DOS were installed as the primary shell.

          If you have a typical Windows configuration, and install
          4DOS as the primary shell, generally you must have an
          AUTOEXEC.BAT file, even if it only consists of a single REM
          statement.  In most cases Windows 95/98 will not load the


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 45
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          primary shell if it cannot find an AUTOEXEC.BAT file in the
          root directory of your boot drive.

          Installing 4DOS Under Windows 95/98/ME

          The 4DOS installation program will install and configure
          4DOS correctly for Windows 95, 98, and ME.  If you are
          installing 4DOS manually, follow the instructions under
          Manual Installation on page 38.

          If you reinstall Windows, your SHELL= line will be removed
          from CONFIG.SYS by the Windows installation process.  To
          correct this, simply boot the new version and use Notepad or
          another ASCII editor to put the SHELL= line back in
          CONFIG.SYS as described in the manual installation
          instructions on page 38, then restart Windows.

          If you load Windows 95/98 in "safe mode" your startup
          files (CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT) are ignored, and 4DOS
          will not be loaded as the primary shell.  When you start
          Windows in "safe mode" use caution if you load 4DOS after
          the GUI starts.  DOS applications sometimes do not work
          properly in "safe mode."

          For information on desktop shortcuts and registry extensions
          for 4DOS under Windows 95/98/ME, see page 41.

          Installing the KSTACK Program in Windows 95/98

          If you want to load KSTACK.COM (required for the KEYSTACK
          command) it should be loaded separately for each 4DOS
          session in Windows 95 and Windows 98.  To do so, include the
          KSTACK command as the last item on the startup command line
          when you set up the corresponding shortcut(s).  For example,
          the command line for your shortcut might read:

               c:\4dos700\4dos.com c:\4dos700\kstack.com

          This will load KSTACK when 4DOS starts, then display a
          prompt.

          If you install KSTACK in AUTOEXEC.BAT, it may not work
          properly when multiple 4DOS windows are open, as stacked
          keystrokes may "bleed through" from one window to another.

          You can also address this issue by loading KSTACK in 4START
          (see page 35), with an IF command to make sure it is not
          loaded from AUTOEXEC.BAT in the primary shell.  To do so,
          use a line like this in 4START:


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 46
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



               if %_shell ne 0 c:\4dos700\kstack.com

     Using 4DOS on a Network

          This section will give you some tips on using 4DOS on a
          network, and on the proper locations for 4DOS files on a
          network.  For additional details, and any additional
          information about compatibility with your particular
          network, see the Compatibility section in the online help.

          In general, you'll find that you can load and run your
          network software normally under 4DOS.  Network drives will
          be accessible as normal drives once the network is loaded,
          and files on the network will be accessible just as if they
          were on a local hard disk.

          Some networks support file and directory names beginning
          with a double backslash [\\], also called "UNC" names, or
          with a server name followed by a colon, to identify files by
          their location on the network.  4DOS detects such names and
          passes them through to the network unaltered, allowing the
          network software to process them.

          Some networks support server disk partitions which exceed
          the standard DOS 2 GB partition size limit, but don't
          provide DOS applications with access to information about
          the drive size.  On these drives, 4DOS may not be able to
          return proper free space or total space figures because the
          drive size information returned by DOS is not accurate.  If
          you have such a drive you may need to use a network or
          server utility to obtain accurate partition size and free
          space information.

          If you need to boot a diskless workstation from a network
          drive, see the Novell Netware topic under Software in the
          Compatibility section of the online help.  The techniques
          described there will allow you to set your system up under
          Netware to avoid accesses to the boot drive once 4DOS is
          running, and can generally be used for other networks as
          well.

          4DOS and Novell Netware

          4DOS includes a special 4DOS.INI directive for Netware
          called NetwareNames. You must set NetwareNames = Yes on
          systems which load Netware, in order to avoid problems with
          destroyed environment variables during LOGIN.  See
          Compatibility in the online help for more information.



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 47
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



          4DOS can also be set up to run on Novell Netware diskless
          workstations which boot from the server.  To do so, you must
          make several changes to 4DOS.INI and your other startup
          files; see the Compatibility section of the online help for
          complete details.

     Uninstalling 4DOS Manually

          For automated uninstall instructions, see page 24.

          The steps required to remove 4DOS from your system manually
          depend on the operating system you are using:

               * If you are running 4DOS under Windows 95/98/ME, and
                 you installed the 4DOS shortcuts or registry
                 extensions from a downloaded .INF file, remove them
                 as described in the file.

               * Next, delete any remaining Windows desktop objects
                 or Start menu entries that refer directly to 4DOS.

               * Find the location of COMMAND.COM on your disk (for
                 example, in the root directory, or the DOS
                 directory).  Then use your editor to edit the
                 CONFIG.SYS file in the root directory of the boot
                 drive.  (If you are running DOS 5 or below, before
                 modifying the CONFIG.SYS file be sure you have a
                 bootable floppy disk as described on page 37).

                 Look for the line which begins with SHELL=, and
                 either delete it, or insert the characters "REM "
                 at the beginning of the line.  Next, add a new line
                 like this:

                      SHELL=d:\path\COMMAND.COM d:\path /P

                 where "d:\path" is the drive and directory for
                 COMMAND.COM (this same directory name is repeated
                 after the full name of COMMAND.COM and before the
                 /P).  If you were previously running COMMAND.COM
                 with a /E:nnnn switch to set the size of your
                 environment, add it to this line as well.

               * After CONFIG.SYS has been modified, edit your
                 AUTOEXEC.BAT file to remove any changes made to
                 accommodate 4DOS.  Look for a command beginning SET
                 COMSPEC= and another which loads the 4DOS file
                 KSTACK.COM.  The SET COMSPEC command will not be



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 48
                               Chapter 5 / 4DOS Configuration and Notes



                 present on most systems.  If it's there, remove it,
                 or change it to read:

                      SET COMSPEC=d:\path\COMMAND.COM

                 where "d:\path" is replaced by the correct drive
                 and directory for COMMAND.COM.  Then add "REM " in
                 front of  the KSTACK.COM command to convert it to a
                 comment, or delete the line entirely.

          Now reboot your system, and you should be back up and
          running under COMMAND.COM.  You can check the 4DOS directory
          for any files you placed there that you want to save.  Then
          delete the 4DOS files and remove the 4DOS directory if you
          wish to do so.





































     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 49
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes




     Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes

     This chapter covers manual installation and configuration of 4NT.
     For information on startup options for 4DOS and 4NT under various
     operating systems see chapter 4 on page 29.   For 4DOS
     configuration see chapter 5 on page 37.  For information on Take
     Command, see chapter 7 on page 57.

     4NT works well with virtually all Intel-based computers that run
     Windows NT 4.0 or Windows 2000.  This chapter provides the basic
     information you need to run 4NT.  If you need more detailed
     technical information or troubleshooting assistance on any of
     these topics, consult the Troubleshooting, Service, and Support
     topic in the 4NT online help.

     If you used the automated installation program to install 4NT,
     you can safely skip this chapter, and return to it only if you
     have difficulty with the program or want to fine-tune it meet
     your needs.

     4NT Installation Notes

          If you regularly run 16-bit character-mode applications
          which "shell to DOS" (i.e., start a secondary command
          prompt session), including 16-bit MAKE utilities, we
          recommend that you enable the NTCMDPROMPT directive in the
          \WINNT\SYSTEM32\CONFIG.NT file.  This is a Windows NT
          feature which affects operation of shells started from 16-
          bit programs, and is not specifically related to 4NT.
          However, in our experience using it improves operation, and
          prevents certain problems with secondary shells (e.g.,
          requiring you to type an extra EXIT command to return to the
          parent application).  NTCMDPROMPT may or may not work well
          in your particular situation, and experimentation is usually
          required to determine the best configuration.  For further
          documentation on NTCMDPROMPT read the comments provided by
          Microsoft in CONFIG.NT.

     Using 4NT Under Windows 95, 98, and ME

          4NT is designed principally to run under Windows NT and
          Windows 2000.  However it is also supported under Windows
          95, 98, and ME.  This section explains the reasons for using
          4NT in this environment, as compared to our standard Windows
          95/98/ME product, 4DOS.  For additional details and
          discussion of any minor issues that may arise with 4NT under



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 50
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes



          Windows 95/98/ME, see the Setup and Troubleshooting section
          of 4NT's online help.

          The following list shows the major areas where 4DOS and 4NT
          differ in their behavior when used under Windows 95, 98, and
          ME

               System startup:  Under Windows 95 and 98 4DOS is
               normally loaded as the DOS primary shell in CONFIG.SYS,
               which means that its capabilities are available when
               booting to a command prompt (without loading Windows).
               4NT cannot be loaded in this way and its capabilities
               will not be available when booting to a command prompt,
               as it requires Windows to be loaded before it can
               function.  This difference is immaterial under Windows
               ME, where a command prompt boot option is not
               available.

               Command line length:  4DOS accepts commands up to 511
               characters long.  4NT accepts typed commands up to 2047
               characters long, and can allow these lines to expand to
               up to 4095 characters during processing.  4NT's support
               for much longer command lines may be important for
               software developers who must use long commands to set
               compiler environment variables, and for other similar
               tasks.

               Performance:  4DOS can produce very fast text output
               under Windows 95, 98, and ME.  Text output from 4NT is
               often somewhat slower -- for example, under Windows
               95/98/ME the 4DOS DIR command will probably display a
               directory more quickly than 4NT's DIR.  This is due to
               the way Windows is designed; Windows 95, 98, and ME
               produce faster output from 16-bit text mode programs
               like 4DOS, while Windows NT and 2000 generally produce
               faster output from 32-bit programs like 4NT.  This
               effect is less noticeable on faster systems, but you
               may want to check the speed on your system before
               deciding to use 4NT under Windows 95, 98, or ME.

               Features:  While 4DOS and 4NT are highly compatible,
               they do not have the exact same feature set.  4NT
               offers certain features not available in 4DOS (e.g. FTP
               support, the MSGBOX and QUERYBOX commands).  4DOS also
               offers some features not available in 4NT (e.g. the
               LOCK command), and is also somewhat better integrated
               with Windows 9x and ME.

               Windows Bugs:  The portion of Windows 95 and 98 which
               provides support to 32-bit console applications like


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 51
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes



               4NT has a number of minor but annoying long-standing
               bugs that do not affect 4DOS, which is a 16-bit
               application.  For example, the window close button does
               not work in 4NT, only a limited range of text window
               dimensions can be supported for 32-bit programs, etc.
               These problems are less prevalent in Windows ME.

          In sum, if you need 4NT's features, such as long command
          lines, FTP support, and additional commands, it can be an
          excellent choice under Windows 95, 98, and ME as long as you
          are willing to put up with slightly slower output and a few
          minor problems of integration with the Windows GUI.  If you
          don't need these features, it's important to you to be able
          to boot to a JP Software command prompt, or you want the
          fastest text output and the best Windows integration, use
          4DOS.

          Many customers find that the best solution is the one we use
          at JP Software, which is to install both products, using one
          most of the time and the other where its benefits are
          particularly important.  (If you choose to install both we
          generally offer a significant discount for purchasing or
          upgrading the second product.)

     Manual Installation of 4NT

          This section is for advanced users and assumes you are
          generally familiar with ASCII editors, batch files, and
          other similar concepts.  In most cases you can select the
          installation options you need using the automated
          installation program, and manual installation is not
          necessary.

          In order to install 4NT manually, you must extract or copy
          the necessary files, "brand" 4NT if necessary, and then
          create shortcuts to start the program on your system.

          In order to install 4NT manually, you must extract or copy
          the necessary files, brand 4NT if necessary, create or
          modify any configuration files you need, and then create the
          necessary commands to start the program on your system.

          Extracting or Copying the Program Files

          When you extract or copy the 4NT files, be sure to place
          them in their own directory, rather than using the same
          directory as a previous version of the program, a directory
          used by other JP Software products, or a directory used by
          other software.


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 52
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes



          We strongly recommend that you place all of the 4NT files in
          the same directory.  See 4NT Files and Directories on page
          53 for some important considerations if you choose not to
          follow this recommendation.

          The method used to extract or copy the files depends on how
          you obtained your copy of the program.  The various methods
          are described on page 23.

          "Branding" 4NT

          (If you are not familiar with branding, refer to the general
          information on page 20 before continuing with this section.)

          If you performed an automated installation the installation
          software will normally run the BR4NT program to install your
          name, serial number, and validation code in 4NT.  If you
          need to brand 4NT manually, go to a 4NT or CMD.EXE prompt,
          change to the directory where 4NT is stored, and enter the
          command:

               [c:\4nt400] br4nt

          Follow the instructions displayed by BR4NT to enter your
          name, serial number, and validation code.  All information
          must be entered exactly as shown on your original brand
          card, label, or electronically delivered branding
          information; you cannot change spelling, capitalization, or
          punctuation.

          4NT Files and Directories

          We strongly recommend that you place all 4NT files in the
          same directory.  If you do not do so, you will probably have
          to explicitly set the locations of 4NT files to avoid
          problems.

          If you do wish to move files to different directories, the
          following information will help you set up the programs
          correctly:

               4NT.EXE is the 4NT program file.  It must be in the
               directory specified in the Command Line field of every
               4NT object.

               4NT.HLP contains the text for the 4NT help system.
               4NT.HLP must be in the same directory as 4NT.EXE.  The
               help table of contents file, 4NT.CNT, must be in the
               same directory as well.


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 53
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes



               KEYSTACK.EXE is a small utility that is used by the
               KESYTACK command to send keystrokes to application
               programs.  For the KEYSTACK command to work this file
               must be in the same directory as 4NT.EXE, or in a
               directory included in your PATH.

               SHRALIAS.EXE is a small utility that is used by the
               SHRALIAS command to save the shared alias and history
               lists between 4NT sessions.  For the SHRALIAS command
               to work this file must be in the same directory as
               4NT.EXE, or in a directory included in your PATH.

          Creating 4NT Shortcuts and Registry Extensions

          When 4NT is installed using automated installation software
          it normally creates Start menu entries and registry
          extensions as described on page 22.  The installation
          software can also create a desktop shortcut for 4NT.

          If you need to create a Start menu entries or desktop
          shortcuts manually -- for example, if the JP Software group
          on the Start menu is inadvertently damaged or deleted --
          you can use the Windows Explorer's facilities to do so:

               * To create additional shortcuts elsewhere on the
                 Start menu, or modify the Programs entries, click
                 mouse button 2 in an open area of the Task Bar, then
                 select Properties on the menu.  Select the Advanced
                 tab and modify or adjust the menus as required.

               * To create one or more shortcuts on the desktop to
                 run 4NT, click with mouse button 2 in any open area
                 of the desktop.  On the popup menu click New, then
                 Shortcut.  Fill in the drive and path as
                 d:\path\4NT.EXE (adjust the drive and path for your
                 system).

          You can also put command-line switches, a command, or the
          name of a batch file at the end of the command line for any
          shortcut.  This allows you to run specific commands or set
          configuration options when you start 4NT from that shortcut.
          For details on the command line options available, see
          Chapter 4, and Starting 4NT under Setup and Troubleshooting
          in the online help.

          For more information on creating and configuring shortcuts
          or modifying the Start Menu, see your Windows documentation.




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 54
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes



          If you want to make these changes as a group, or reinstall
          shortcuts and registry extensions without reinstalling 4NT,
          see the support area of our web site for a set of registry
          extension (.INF) files you can download and install.  These
          files create shortcuts and registry changes similar to those
          made by the installation software.  The comments within each
          file explain how to install and uninstall it.

     The 4NT Help System

          When you start the 4NT help system, 4NT opens a new window
          to run the standard Windows NT help program.  The help
          program displays the help text from the file 4NT.HLP, and
          lets you browse through it.

          4NT's help text does not cover the Windows NT external
          commands because they are included in Windows NT's built-in
          Command Reference.

          If you start the help system from a 4NT window on the
          Windows NT desktop, you will be returned to that window when
          you close the help program.  However, if you have switched
          the window to full-screen mode before invoking the help
          system, you must return to 4NT manually (using standard
          Windows NT methods for switching between windows).  This is
          due to the design of Windows NT Help and is not a limitation
          of 4NT.

          You can also keep the help window on the screen and return
          to the 4NT window, switching between the two windows as
          needed.  This may be useful when you are writing a batch
          file, working on a complex command, or experimenting with
          4NT.

          In order for the 4NT help system to work properly, the help
          text file, 4NT.HLP, must be in the same directory as
          4NT.EXE.

          The 4NT installation program sets up a separate object for
          the help system so that you can load the help file directly.
          To create a similar object manually, create an object with a
          command line like this:

               WINHLP32 C:\4NT400\4NT.HLP

          (Change the drive and path to reflect the location of
          4NT.HLP on your system.)




     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 55
                                Chapter 6 / 4NT Configuration and Notes



          4NT also supports the /? switch to display "quick help"
          for any command.

     Uninstalling 4NT Manually

          For automated uninstall instructions, see page 24.

          To remove 4NT manually perform the following steps:

               * If you installed the 4NT shortcuts or registry
                 extensions from a downloaded .INF file, remove them
                 as described in the file.

               * Delete any remaining Windows desktop objects or
                 Start menu entries that refer directly to 4NT.

               * Check the 4NT directory for any files you placed
                 there that you want to save.  Then delete the 4NT
                 files and directory from your hard drive.
































     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 56
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration




     Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration

     This chapter covers startup options, manual installation, and
     configuration of Take Command.  For information on 4DOS and 4NT
     see chapters 4 - 6.

     This chapter provides basic information about Take Command/32.
     If you need more detailed technical information or
     troubleshooting assistance on any of these topics, consult the
     Troubleshooting, Service, and Support topic in the online help.

     Once you have Take Command installed on your computer, the
     program is ready to run.  However, you can configure Take Command
     in various ways to suit your needs and preferences.  Most of the
     configuration or behavior of Take Command is controlled by
     aliases you create (explained in the online help and in Chapter 5
     of the Reference Manual) and by the .INI file (explained briefly
     below, and in detail in the online help and Chapter 6 of the
     Reference Manual).

     A few configuration options can also be set on the startup
     command-line, which is explained here.  If Take Command works the
     way you want it to after installation, you can skip this section.
     You may, however, want to skim this material to see what options
     are available.

     Starting Take Command

          You will typically start Take Command from a Windows desktop
          shortcut or from the Programs section of the Start menu.
          The automated installation software will create a JP
          Software entry on the Start Menu, and objects within it to
          start Take Command and its online help.  A desktop shortcut
          for Take Command can be created during installation as well.

          Usually these are sufficient, but if you prefer you can
          create multiple shortcuts to start Take Command with
          different startup commands or options, or to run different
          batch files or commands.  You can use these items to run
          commonly-used commands and batch files directly from the
          desktop.

     Command Line Options

          Some of the options that Take Command recognizes are
          required in certain circumstances; others are available if
          you want finer control over the way the program starts.


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 57
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          The shortcut command that starts Take Command will typically
          include the program name with drive and path then include
          any switches for the program, for example:

               c:\tcmd300\tcmd32.exe

          Although the startup command line is usually very simple,
          you can add a number of options if you need to customize the
          way Take Command starts.  The complete syntax for the
          startup command line is:

               d:\path\program [d:\path] [@d:\path\inifile]
               [//iniline] [/L /LA /LD /LH /T:bf] [[/C] command]

          Do not include the square brackets shown in the command line
          above.  They are there to indicate that the items within the
          brackets are optional.

          If you include any of the options below, you should use them
          in the order that they are described.  If you do not, they
          may not operate properly.

          The following items can be included on the command line:

               * d:\path\program:  The path and name of the
                 executable program file (TCMD32.EXE).  It is
                 required to start Take Command.

               * d:\path:  This is the second d:\path in the command
                 line above.  It sets the drive and directory where
                 the program is stored, called the COMSPEC path.
                 This option is included for compatibility with
                 character-mode command processors, but is not needed
                 in normal use.  Take Command can find its own
                 directory without a COMSPEC path.

               * @d:\path\inifile:  This option sets the path and
                 name of the .INI file.  You don't need this option
                 if your .INI file has the default name (TCMD32.INI)
                 and it is either in the same directory as the
                 executable program, or in the Windows directory.
                 This option is most useful if you want to start the
                 program with a specific and unique .INI file.

               * //iniline:  This option tells Take Command to treat
                 the text appearing between the // and the next space
                 or tab as an .INI directive.  The directive should
                 be in the same format as a line in the .INI file,
                 but may not contain spaces, tabs, or comments.
                 Directives on the command line override any


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 58
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



                 corresponding directive in the .INI file.  This
                 option may be repeated.  It is a convenient way to
                 place a few simple directives on the startup line
                 without having to modify or create a new .INI file.

               * /L, /LA, /LD, and /LH:  These options force Take
                 Command to use a local alias, directory history,
                 and / or command history list.  They can be used to
                 override any LocalAlias=No, LocalHistory=No, or
                 LocalDirHistory=No settings in the .INI file.  This
                 allows you to use global lists as the default, but
                 start a specific shell or session with local aliases
                 or histories.  See the online help or the Reference
                 Manual for details on local and global aliases and
                 histories.  /LA forces local aliases, /LD forces
                 local directory history, /LH forces local command
                 history, and /L forces all three.

               * /T:bf:  This option sets the foreground and
                 background colors in Take Command/32's command
                 window.  Both b and f are hexadecimal digits; b
                 specifies the background color and f specifies the
                 foreground color. This option is included only for
                 compatibility with Windows NT's CMD.EXE; in most
                 cases you should set default colors with the
                 StdColors directive in TCMD32.INI, or the
                 corresponding Output Colors option on the Display
                 page of the option dialogs (see page 60).

               * [/C ] command:  This option tells Take Command to
                 run a specific command after starting.  The command
                 will be run after TCSTART (see page 60), and before
                 the prompt is displayed.  The command can be any
                 valid alias, internal or external command, or batch
                 file.  All other startup options must be placed
                 before the command, because Take Command will treat
                 characters after the command as part of the command
                 and not as additional startup options.

                 When the command is preceded by a /C, Take Command
                 will execute the command and then exit and return to
                 the parent program or the desktop without displaying
                 a prompt.

          For example, this command line will start Take Command/32,
          execute the TCSTART file (if any), execute START.BTM, and
          then display the prompt:

               c:\tcmd300\tcmd32.exe c:\tcmd300\start.btm



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 59
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          This command line will start Take Command/32, select local
          aliases, execute any TCSTART file you have created, execute
          the file PROCESS.BTM, and then exit when PROCESS.BTM is
          done.  The prompt will not be displayed by this session:

               c:\tcmd300\tcmd32.exe /la /c c:\tcmd300\process.btm

     Creating or Modifying Startup Files

          Take Command uses two files to control the way it starts:  a
          file of configuration information called the .INI file
          (TCMD32.INI), and a startup batch file called TCSTART
          (depending on your operating system, TCSTART may have the
          extension .BTM, .BAT, or .CMD).

          The .INI file is required, and is normally created during
          installation, or the first time you run Take Command.  The
          .INI file should be placed in the same directory as the
          other files for Take Command/32.

          You can add additional information to the .INI file manually
          with an ASCII editor.  Many of the .INI options can also be
          set directly from within Take Command using the
          configuration dialogs which are accessible from the
          Configure Take Command selection on the Options menu, or
          with the OPTION command.  There are several pages of options
          within the dialog.

          The .INI file is divided into sections.  Each section begins
          with a section name in square brackets, for example [Fonts].
          The options you can set are all in the [TakeCommand]
          section, which is normally the first one in the file.  Take
          Command maintains all other sections of the file itself; you
          should not modify them unless you are instructed to do so by
          our support personnel.

          The TCSTART file is optional.  It is executed each time Take
          Command starts, and gives you a convenient way to load
          aliases and environment variables, and otherwise initialize
          Take Command.  TCSTART is normally placed in the same
          directory as the other product files, but this may vary if
          you use the same TCSTART file for more than one of our
          products.

          For complete details on startup files, on the option dialogs
          and OPTION command, and on the TCEXIT file (executed when
          the command processor exits), see the online help or the
          Reference Manual.



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 60
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          If you are upgrading from a previous version of Take Command
          you may have a .INI file or a TCSTART (or TCEXIT) file in
          the previous version's directory.  To use these files with
          your new version, copy them to the new directory, and then
          update any paths which point to the old program directory.

     Exit Codes

          If you start Take Command from another program (e.g. to run
          a batch file or internal command), it will return a numeric
          code to the other program when it is finished.  This code is
          usually used to indicate whether the operation performed was
          successful or not, with 0 often indicating success and a
          non-zero value indicating a failure or other numeric result.

          Take Command's exit code is normally the numeric exit code
          from the last internal or external command.  However, for
          compatibility reasons and to avoid conflicts with external
          commands, only some internal commands set the exit code;
          others leave it unchanged from the most recent external
          command.

          If you enter an unknown command the exit code will be 2,
          which is the internal Take Command unknown command error
          number.

          You can use the EXIT n command to explicitly set the exit
          code.  If you do, this will override the rules above, and
          set the return code to the value in your EXIT command.

          The normal rules described above may not return a code that
          indicates the success or failure of the specific operation
          that concerns you.  Therefore, if you need to rely on the
          exit code from Take Command, we recommend that you use a
          batch file or alias to create the exit code you want, and
          then set the code explicitly with EXIT n.

     Manual Installation of Take Command/32

          This section is for advanced users, and assumes you are
          generally familiar with the Windows desktop shell, the
          Windows directory, and other similar topics.  In most cases
          you can select the installation options you need using the
          automated installation program, and manual installation is
          not necessary.

          In order to install Take Command manually, you must extract
          or copy the necessary files, "brand" Take Command if



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 61
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          necessary, modify configuration files as required, and then
          create shortcuts to start the program on your system.

          Extracting or Copying the Program Files

          When you extract or copy the Take Command/32 files, be sure
          to place them in their own directory, rather than using the
          same directory as a previous version of the program, a
          directory used by other JP Software products, or a directory
          used by other software.

          We strongly recommend that you place all of the Take
          Command/32 files in the same directory.  See Take Command/32
          Files and Directories on page 62 for some important
          considerations if you choose not to follow this
          recommendation.

          The method used to extract or copy the files depends on how
          you obtained your copy of the program.  The various methods
          are described on page 23.

          "Branding" Take Command/32

          (If you are not familiar with branding, refer to the general
          information on page 20 before continuing with this section.)

          If you performed an automated installation the installation
          software will normally run the BRTC32 program to install
          your name, serial number, and validation code in Take
          Command/32.  If you need to brand Take Command/32 manually,
          go to a Take Command/32 or CMD.EXE prompt, change to the
          directory where Take Command/32 is stored, and enter the
          command:

               [c:\tc32300] brtc32

          Follow the instructions displayed by BRTC32 to enter your
          name, serial number, and validation code.  All information
          must be entered exactly as shown on your original brand
          card, label, or electronically delivered branding
          information; you cannot change spelling, capitalization, or
          punctuation.

          Take Command/32 Files and Directories

          We strongly recommend that you place all Take Command/32
          files in the same directory.  If you do not do so, you will



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 62
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          probably have to explicitly set the locations of some files
          to avoid problems.

          If you do wish to move files to different directories, the
          following information will help you set up the programs
          correctly:

               TCMD32.EXE is the Take Command/32 program file.  It
               must be in the directory specified in the Command Line
               field of every shortcut that starts Take Command/32 .

               TCMD32.HLP contains the text for the Take Command/32
               help system.  It must be in the same directory as
               TCMD32.EXE.  The help table of contents file,
               TCMD32.CNT, must be in the same directory as well.

               SHRALIAS.EXE is a utility that saves the shared alias
               and history list between Take Command sessions.  It is
               used by the internal command SHRALIAS.  This file
               should be stored in the Take Command directory, or in a
               directory included in your PATH.  If it is not, the
               SHRALIAS command will not work.

          Creating Take Command/32 Shortcuts and Registry Extensions

          When Take Command/32 is installed using automated
          installation software it normally creates Start menu entries
          and registry extensions as described on page 22.  The
          installation software can also create a desktop shortcut for
          Take Command/32.

          If you need to create a Start menu entries or desktop
          shortcuts manually -- for example, if the JP Software group
          on the Start menu is inadvertently damaged or deleted --
          you can use the Windows Explorer's facilities to do so:

               * To create additional shortcuts elsewhere on the
                 Start menu, or modify the Programs entries, click
                 mouse button 2 in an open area of the Task Bar, then
                 select Properties on the menu.  Select the Advanced
                 tab and modify or adjust the menus as required.

               * To create one or more shortcuts on the desktop to
                 run Take Command/32, click with mouse button 2 in
                 any open area of the desktop.  On the popup menu
                 click New, then Shortcut.  Fill in the drive and
                 path as d:\path\TCMD32.EXE (adjust the drive and
                 path for your system).



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 63
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          You can also put command-line switches, a command, or the
          name of a batch file at the end of the command line for any
          shortcut.  This allows you to run specific commands or set
          configuration options when you start Take Command/32 from
          that shortcut.  For details on the command line options
          available, see Chapter 4, and Starting Take Command under
          Setup and Troubleshooting in the online help.

          For more information on creating and configuring shortcuts
          or modifying the Start Menu, see your Windows documentation.

          If you want to make these changes as a group, or reinstall
          shortcuts and registry extensions without reinstalling Take
          Command/32, see the support area of our web site for a set
          of registry extension (.INF) files you can download and
          install.  These files create shortcuts and registry changes
          similar to those made by the installation software.  The
          comments within each file explain how to install and
          uninstall it.

     Character-Mode Applications

          When you start a DOS program or a 32-bit Windows character-
          mode program under Take Command/32, it runs in a special
          "console session."  The console session displays a
          separate window without a standard menu bar or other Windows
          features.

          This section gives a brief overview of how the console
          window works, and how you can run character-mode
          applications from Take Command/32.  For complete details see
          Console Applications and the Console Window in the online
          help (under "Using the Take Command Interface").

          The console session window is connected to Take Command/32,
          and is created when Take Command starts.  You can view it at
          any time with the Alt-V key or the View Console selection on
          the Apps menu.

          When you start a DOS or character-mode application from Take
          Command/32 it is run in the console session.  The console
          window automatically becomes visible when the application
          starts, and is normally hidden when the application exits.

          If you run a DOS or character-mode program which does not
          exit immediately (for example, a DOS word processor or
          editor) you will be able to work in the console session, and
          return automatically to Take Command when you exit the
          application.  If you run a DOS or character-mode application


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 64
                  Chapter 7 / Take Command/32 Startup and Configuration



          from Take Command and the application exits quickly, without
          waiting for any input (for example, a utility like PKUNZIP),
          you may have to use Alt-V to return to the console window
          and view the output.

          Caveman

          To make it easier to use character-mode applications from
          within Windows, Take Command/32 includes a technology called
          "Caveman."  Caveman allows DOS and 32-bit Windows
          character-mode programs to run directly within the Take
          Command window, and eliminates the need to switch to a
          separate console window.

          When Caveman is running in Take Command/32, it continually
          scans the console window and updates the Take Command window
          with any changes it finds.  It also sends keystrokes from
          the Take Command window to the console window.  Caveman
          makes a character mode program appear to run in the Take
          Command window even though it is, in reality, running in a
          console session window.

          For complete details on Caveman see the Console Applications
          and the Console Window and Caveman topics in the online help
          (both accessible under "Using the Take Command
          Interface").  Due to limitations in the way character-mode
          programs can operate under Windows, the techniques used by
          Caveman do not work well with all programs.  The online help
          explains how to enable Caveman, and how to set up your
          system to make the best use of Take Command/32 and Caveman.

     Uninstalling Take Command/32 Manually

          For automated uninstall instructions, see page 24.

          To uninstall Take Command manually, follow these steps:

               * If you installed the Take Command/32 shortcuts or
                 registry extensions from a downloaded .INF file,
                 remove them as described in the file.

               * Delete any remaining Windows desktop objects or
                 Start menu entries that refer directly to Take
                 Command/32.

               * Check the Take Command/32 directory for any files
                 you placed there that you want to save.  Then delete
                 the Take Command/32 files and directory from your
                 hard drive.


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 65
                                                                  Index



     Index                              AUTOEXEC.BAT
                                            and installation, 42
                                            and startup command, 36
     4                                      disabling, 34
                                            running, 35
     4DOS                                   single-step option, 36
         branding, 41                       starting KSTACK.COM, 42
         compatibility with
             memory, 46                 B
             older DOS versions, 40
             operating system           Batch files, 19
               versions, 40                                                    technical support for, 6
             video display, 47          Branding, 23
         configuration, 40                  4DOS, 41
         installation                       4NT, 57
             directory, 41, 44              of diskette or CD-ROM
             manual, 41                       copies, 24
             uninstalling, 51               of downloaded minor
     4DOS.HLP, 44, 46                         upgrades, 24
     4EXIT, 37                              of electronic purchases,
     4HELP.EXE, 44, 46                        23
     4NT                                    Take Command/32, 66
         and operating system               upgrades, 24
           versions, 54
         branding, 57                   C
         configuration, 54
         installation                   Caveman, 69
             directory, 57              Clipboard, 16
             manual, 56                 Colors
             uninstalling, 60               problems with, in 4DOS, 47
         under Microsoft Windows            setting, in 4NT, 36
           95, 98, and ME, 54           Colors, setting, in Take
     4NT.HLP, 58, 59                      Command/32, 63
     4START, 37                         Command history, local and
         and startup command, 36          global, 35, 63
         single-step option, 36         Command line enhancements, 13
                                        Command window, 16
     A                                  Commands, 10
                                        Compatibility (4DOS)
     Alias list, local and global,          and DOS, 48
       47                                   and Microsoft Windows
     Aliases, 17                              95/98/ME, 49
         local and global, 35, 63           and networks, 50
         technical support for, 6           and Novell Netware, 51
     ANSI driver, and 4DOS, 47          COMSPEC
     APPEND command, and 4DOS, 48           environment variable
     Applications, character-mode               setting automatically,
       and DOS, under Take                        33
       Command/32, 68                           setting manually, 43
     Apps menu, 16                          path, 33, 42
                                        COMSPEC path, 62


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 66
                                                                  Index



     CONFIG.NT, 54                      Enhancements (continued)
     CONFIG.SYS                             configuration, 17
         and installation, 42           Environment, memory for, 34
         DOS configuration              Exit codes
           utilities, 48                    4DOS and 4NT, 38
     Configuration, 17, 31                  Take Command, 65
         .INI file, 37, 64
         4DOS, 40                       F
         4NT, 54
         4START and 4EXIT, 37           FASTOPEN, and 4DOS, 48
         dialogs, 64                    File associations, 17
         OPTION command, 37, 64         File menu, 16
         primary and secondary          File names, on networks, and
           shells, 31                     4DOS, 51
         starting Take Command, 61      FORMAT /S command, and 4DOS,
         startup options, 32, 62          48
         Take Command/32, 61            FTP site, JP Software, 4
         TCSTART and TCEXIT, 64

     Console session, in Take           H
       Command/32, 68
     Contacting JP Software, 3          Hard drives, and 4DOS, 47
     Critical errors, 34                HELP command, MS-DOS, 48
     Customer service, 3                Help menu, 16
                                        Help system, 3, 28
     D                                      /? option, 28
                                            4DOS, 46
     DBLSPACE, and 4DOS, 48                 4NT, 59
     DDE, 17                                key topics in, 29
     Directory history list, local          location of files
       and global, 35, 63                       4DOS, 44
     Diskless workstations, 51                  4NT, 58
     Disks                                      Take Command/32, 67
         drives, and 4DOS, 47           History list, local and
         free space, and 4DOS, 48         global, 47
     DOS
         older versions, and 4DOS,      I
           40
         shell, 9                       .INI directives, on startup
         versions of, 1                   command line, 33, 63
     DR DOS, and 4DOS, 1, 48            .INI file, 37, 64
     Drag and Drop, 17                      and manual installation of
     DRVSPACE, and 4DOS, 48                   4DOS, 43
                                            location of, 33, 62
     E                                      sections, 64
                                        Installation, 21
     Edit menu, 16                          directory
     Enhancements                               4DOS, 41, 44
         aliases and batch files,               4NT, 57
           17                                   Take Command/32, 66,
         command line, 13                         67
         commands, 10



     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 67
                                                                  Index


     Installation (continued)           Microsoft Windows 95/98/ME
         extracting individual              and 4DOS, 1, 49
           files, 25                        and 4DOS primary shell, 49
         manual                             and 4NT, 1, 54
             4DOS, 41                       and and Take Command, 1
             4NT, 56                        and KSTACK.COM, 50
             Take Command/32, 66            AUTOEXEC.BAT, 49
         of upgrades, 22                    CONFIG.SYS, 49
         reversing, 26                      HELP command, 48
             4DOS, 51                       installing 4DOS, 49
             4NT, 60                    Microsoft Windows NT/2000
             Take Command/32, 70            and 4NT, 1
     InstallPath, 43                        and Take Command, 1
                                            CONFIG.NT, 54
     J                                      NTCMDPROMPT, 54
                                        MOVE command, 4DOS, 48
     JP Software, contacting, 3         MS-DOS / PC-DOS
                                            and 4DOS, 1, 48
                                            APPEND command, 48
     K                                      FORMAT /S command, 48
                                            HELP command, 48
     KSTACK.COM, 42                         version 6.x, 37, 38
         and Windows 95/98, 50
                                        N
     L
                                        Networks, 50
     Local and global aliases and           accessing, 15
       history, 35, 47, 63                  diskless workstations on,
                                              51
     M                                      file and directory names
                                              on, and 4DOS, 51
     Memory, and 4DOS, 46               Novell DOS, and 4DOS, 1, 48
     Menu bar, 15                       Novell Netware, 51
     Microsoft Windows                      diskless workstations on,
         desktop, changes during              51
           installation, 24             NTCMDPROMPT, 54
         registry extensions
             for 4DOS, 45               O
             for 4NT, 58
             for Take Command/32,       OpenDOS, and 4DOS, 1, 48
               67                       OPTION command, 37, 64
         registry, changes during       Options menu, 16
           installation, 24
         shortcuts                      P
             for 4DOS, 45
             for 4NT, 58                Primary shell, 31
             for Take Command/32,           and Windows 95/98, 49
               67                       Prompt Solution newsletter, 7
         versions of, 1
                                        Q

                                        Quick help, 28


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 68
                                                                  Index


     R                                  TCSTART, 64
                                            and startup command, 63
     README.TXT, 3                      Technical support, 4
     Reference manual, 2                Title bar, 15
     Registration, 7                    Tool bar, 16
     Resident portion (of 4DOS), 47     Transient portion (of 4DOS),
                                          47

     S                                  U

     Scrolling problems, and 4DOS,      Uninstalling
       47                                   4DOS, 51
     Secondary shell, 31                    4NT, 60
         4NT, 54                            automated, 26
     Service, 3                             Take Command/32, 70
     Shell                              Upgrades, 7
         DOS shell, 9                       branding, 24
         primary, 31                        installing, 22
         secondary, 31                  Utilities menu, 16
             4NT, 54
     SMARTDRV, and 4DOS, 49             V
     Start menu
         adding 4DOS, 45                Video display, and 4DOS, 47
         adding 4NT, 58
         adding Take Command/32, 67     W
     Starting Take Command, 61
     Startup files                      Web site, JP Software, 4
         4DOS and 4NT, 37
         Take Command/32, 64
     Startup options
         4DOS and 4NT, 32
         Take Command/32, 62
     Status bar, 16
     System files, changes during
       installation, 24

     T

     Take Command products, 2
     Take Command/32
         and character-mode or DOS
           applications, 68
         and Windows features, 16
         branding, 66
         configuration, 61
         installation
             directory, 66, 67
             manual, 66
             uninstalling, 70
         window, 15
     TCEXIT, 64
     TCMD32.HLP, 67


     Copr. 2001 JP Software Inc.     4DOS, 4NT, TC32 Install Guide / 69
